Deadly wildfires burning across Maui prompt evacuations
By Aditi Sangal, Eric Levenson, Elise Hammond, Tori B. Powell, Maureen Chowdhury, Amir Vera, Adrienne Vogt and Elizabeth Wolfe, CNN

Updated 10:37 a.m. ET, August 10, 2023
What we covered
At least 36 people have been killed in "unprecedented" wildfires that are raging across Hawaii's Big Island and Maui, officials said Wednesday.
Much of Lahaina, a touristic and economic hub of 9,000 people, has been destroyed and hundreds of families displaced, Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said. Residents reported heartbreaking destruction. "We have no more Lahaina. It’s gone," Mark Stefl told CNN.
Most of the fires on Maui – fueled in part by violent winds from Hurricane Dora, churning more than 800 miles away – have not yet been contained, Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said.
Here's how to help victims of the wildfires in Hawaii.
In an area with limited connectivity? Use CNN's lite site to get the latest news.

All
Catch Up
Lahaina
76 Posts
SORT BY

Latest

10:23 a.m. ET, August 10, 2023
Our live coverage of the wildfires in Maui has moved.


5:22 a.m. ET, August 10, 2023
Winds are decreasing overnight but will remain breezy Thursday
From CNN's Monica Garrett

Wildfires seen near Kihei as high winds in Maui are causing multiple fires across the island, in Kahului, Hawaii, on August 9, 2023.
Wildfires seen near Kihei as high winds in Maui are causing multiple fires across the island, in Kahului, Hawaii, on August 9, 2023. Marco Garcia/Reuters
Winds will decrease across Hawaii on Thursday as the weather pattern that created the hurricane-force winds eases.

Hurricane Dora continues to move farther away from the islands. Due to the increasing distance, winds had already decreased slightly on Wednesday with gusts of 50 mph.

The high pressure to the northwest of the state will continue to produce moderate to locally breezy trade winds across the region Wednesday night, and a weakening in this pattern will allow the winds to decrease to more average speeds on Thursday. 

The forecast for west Maui Wednesday evening calls for northeast winds of 25 to 30 mph, decreasing to 15 to 30 mph after midnight. Winds are forecast to be 15 to 25 mph on Thursday and 10 to 20 mph Thursday night.

“Expect a typical dry summer trade wind weather pattern from Thursday onward,” the National Weather Service said in its forecast discussion.
The red flag warning and wind advisory are no longer in effect.

“On average, we see the critical fire weather conditions about four days per year,” NWS Honolulu Meteorologist John Bravender said. “The last fire weather watch we issued was for December 9, 2022 and the last red flag warning was November 21, 2022.”
More context: Ian Morrison, a National Weather Service meteorologist in Honolulu, told CNN Wednesday "very little rain" is expected Thursday for Maui and the Big Island.

Morrison cautioned that although the latest wind conditions will assist the firefighters, “dropping winds doesn’t mean the fires will go away.”


4:08 a.m. ET, August 10, 2023
At least 36 killed in Maui County wildfires
From CNN's Jamiel Lynch

The death toll in Maui County is now 36, according to a press release from the county.

“As the firefighting efforts continue, 36 total fatalities have been discovered today amid the active Lahaina fire. No other details are available at this time,” the release said.

4:44 a.m. ET, August 10, 2023
Official: Recovery is "going to take years"
From CNN's Jamiel Lynch

An aerial view of damaged areas amidst wildfires in Maui, Hawaii, on August 9, 2023, in this screenshot taken from a social media video.
An aerial view of damaged areas amidst wildfires in Maui, Hawaii, on August 9, 2023, in this screenshot taken from a social media video. Courtesy of Vince Carter/Reuters
As fires devastate large swaths of Maui, Hawaii Lt. Governor Sylvia Luke said Wednesday that "the road to recovery will be long.”

The blazes have destroyed hundreds of structures in Maui, including homes and businesses, according to officials. Thousands of residents have been displaced on the island, officials said.  

“These were small businesses that invested in Maui. These were local residents. We need to figure out a way to help a lot of people in the next several years,” Luke said.
“It’s going to take years,” she added.


4:01 a.m. ET, August 10, 2023
More than 11,000 people flown out of Maui Wednesday, with more expected Thursday
From CNN's Elizabeth Wolfe and Jamiel Lynch

More than 11,000 people were flown out of Maui on Wednesday, Hawaii Department of Transportation Director Ed Sniffen said at a news conference.

As fires rage across Maui on Wednesday, thousands of travelers scrambled to evacuate and officials urged nonresidents to leave the island as quickly as possible.

Still, some airplanes leaving Maui Wednesday had empty seats as major highway closures made getting to the airport difficult for some, Sniffen said, noting the roads are now mostly reopened.

In an effort to help travelers leave, Maui County organized buses to take more than 400 people to the airport Wednesday, he said. Airlines have also assisted by flying in bigger planes, lowering rates and adding extra routes.

More than 600 people will stay overnight at Kahului Airport as they await early morning flights, according to Sniffen.

About 1,500 people are expected to fly out of the airport tomorrow, he noted.


4:46 a.m. ET, August 10, 2023
About 150,000 gallons of water dropped in Maui County to help suppress fires
From CNN's Jamiel Lynch

An aerial view shows damage along the coast of Lahaina in the aftermath of wildfires in Maui, Hawaii, on August 9, 2023 in this screen grab obtained from social media video.
An aerial view shows damage along the coast of Lahaina in the aftermath of wildfires in Maui, Hawaii, on August 9, 2023 in this screen grab obtained from social media video. Richard Olsten/Air Maui Helicopters/Reuters
Military helicopters dropped about 150,000 gallons of water in Maui County on Wednesday as they aided in fire suppression efforts, Hawaii Department of Defense Adjutant General Kenneth S. Hara said in a news conference Wednesday night.

 "The primary focus is to save lives, and then to prevent human suffering, and then to mitigate great property loss," Hara said.
State department crews are assisting in efforts to restore communications across the island -- which has seen widespread cellular outages -- and distribute water, he said.

Hara said he anticipates federal assistance will be needed for recovery efforts including debris clearance and temporary housing.


2:48 a.m. ET, August 10, 2023
US military assets deployed to assist firefighting in Maui and Hawaii's Big Island
From CNN's Josh Campbell

Several military helicopters have been deployed to Hawaii's Big Island and Maui to provide firefighting and search and rescue support, the US military’s Indo-Pacific unified combatant command said in a statement Wednesday.

"The US Army 25th Combat Aviation Brigade deployed two UH-60 Blackhawks and one CH-47 Chinook to Hawaii Island to conduct firefighting operations," said the command, which is headquartered in Hawaii. 
"Additionally, US Navy Helicopter Maritime Strike Squadron 37 sent MH-60R Seahawk helicopters to assist the US Coast Guard in search and rescue operations."
The command's forces are also ready to assist if requested by the state of Hawaii or the Hawaii National Guard, it said.


1:39 a.m. ET, August 10, 2023
US Coast Guard provides update on Tuesday's Maui water rescues
From CNN's Elizabeth Wolfe and Elizabeth Joseph

As wildfires ripped through Maui Tuesday, the US Coast Guard was deployed to Lahaina to rescue 14 people who fled into the water to escape the advancing fire and smoke, the agency said in a Wednesday update.

The Coast Guard had previously said 12 people were rescued.

The survivors, who were picked up on a 45-foot boat, are in stable condition, the agency said in a news release.

The rescue boat and Coast Guard crew remained on the scene near Lahaina Wednesday, it said.

"On behalf of the US Coast Guard, I wish to convey my sincere condolences to the communities who have been tragically affected by the fires in Maui,” said Capt. Aja L. Kirksey, Sector Commander of Coast Guard Sector Honolulu.
"Our collaboration with partner agencies and neighboring jurisdictions remains steadfast, as we unite our resources, knowledge, and equipment to ensure responder and public safety and amplify the impact of our response efforts.”

1:13 a.m. ET, August 10, 2023
Satellite images show destruction of significant historical sites in Maui's Lahaina
From CNN's Paul P. Murphy

BEFORE - A satellite image shows an overview of Lahaina, Maui County, in Hawaii on June 25, 2023.
BEFORE - A satellite image shows an overview of Lahaina, Maui County, in Hawaii on June 25, 2023. Satellite image ©2023 Maxar Technologies
AFTER - A satellite image shows an overview of wildfires in Lahaina, Maui County, in Hawaii on August 9, 2023.
AFTER - A satellite image shows an overview of wildfires in Lahaina, Maui County, in Hawaii on August 9, 2023. Satellite image ©2023 Maxar Technologies
A number of significant historical sites in Maui's tourist hub of Lahaina have been destroyed by fires, according to a CNN analysis of Maxar Technologies satellite imagery.

Several buildings along Lahaina's historic Front Street have been impacted, according to the satellite imagery, which was taken at 11:03 a.m. local time Wednesday.

Among the losses is a towering banyan tree -- one of the largest in the US -- which was imported to the island from India in 1873, according to the Hawaii Tourism Authority. There appears to be no vegetation on the tree when compared to earlier images.

The Lahaina Heritage Museum, housed in a courthouse just west of the tree, has been burned so badly that the roof has collapsed and only its walls remain, the images show.

The Baldwin Home Museum -- an 1830s-era house believed to be the oldest home on the island -- has been reduced to ash. Lahaina Restoration Foundation executive director Theo Morrison confirmed to CNN earlier Wednesday that the house had been burnt.

Further north, the Wo Hing Temple Museum has also been destroyed. The two-story structure was built in 1912 to be a temple and social hall for the island's Chinese immigrant community.


1:00 a.m. ET, August 10, 2023
Hawaii governor says Maui does not have enough shelter for long-term living accommodations
From CNN's Elizabeth Joseph

Kamuela Kawaakoa, Iiulia Yasso, and their son Kama, all of Lahaina, rest at an evacuation shelter in Wailuku, Hawaii, on Wednesday, August 9, 2023.
Kamuela Kawaakoa, Iiulia Yasso, and their son Kama, all of Lahaina, rest at an evacuation shelter in Wailuku, Hawaii, on Wednesday, August 9, 2023. Audrey McAvoy/AP
While shelter space for an emergency response to the raging wildfires in Maui is available for a just a few days, "there's not enough shelter for long-term living," according to Hawaii Gov. Josh Green.

He told CNN's Sara Sidner Wednesday that individuals should visit the island another time, noting that residents are struggling to recover from the unprecedented fires.

"What we're trying to do right now is to make sure that anyone who doesn't need to be in Maui for anything but essential travel does not go to Maui. We'll welcome visitors back to paradise after the fire's done and after we can rebuild," he said, citing the need to utilize as many hotel rooms, Airbnbs, and other shelters "to house our people."
Several thousand people will need housing, he estimated.

"I'm making a call right now to all the people of Hawaii: If you have an ADU on your property, if you have a rental that's not occupied right now, we will be promoting a program quite quickly ... to put people back into shelter," he said without providing additional information on the program.
"We already struggle with homelessness and a severe shortage of housing in our state, so this of course exacerbates that problem," the governor said.

5:30 a.m. ET, August 10, 2023
West Maui visitors advised to leave Lahaina and Maui as soon as possible
From CNN’s Joe Sutton

UPDATE 11 A.M.:

The West Maui fire that killed at least 36 and burned more than 271 structures has been 80 percent contained as of Thursday morning, according to the Maui Fire Department, marking the first time officials have publicly announced containment numbers on the three active fires in Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry.

MFD, which conducted an assessment at first light, said it is making progress in fighting the three fires.

In Lahaina, crews further secured the perimeter of wildland areas that burned and are continuing those efforts today, along with patrolling areas where structures burned.

The Pulehu fire, in an area mauka of Kihei, was reported to be 70 percent contained this morning, after heavy equipment was used to create firebreaks through the night. Firefighters are continuing to secure the perimeter this morning.

A containment percentage for the fire Upcountry is pending further assessment this morning. Firefighting efforts focused on two main areas of Olinda and Upper Kula. Crews are continuing efforts to protect structures and extinguish smoldering hot spots. State forestry workers were leading the firefighting effort in the Olinda area. On the Kula side, the fire is most active in gulches that are difficult to access.

UPDATE 9 A.M.:

Mass evacuations of residents and visitors from West Maui are continuing Thursday morning as crews continue to battle a fire that decimated much of Lahaina town.

Bus evacuations resumed at 8:30 a.m. today, with boarding staged at the Whalers Village entryway fronting Kaanapali Parkway, according to Maui County. Visitors are being taken directly to the Kahului Airport, while residents are being taken to a Central Maui shelter.

Three Roberts Hawaii motor coaches, each with a capacity of 49 people, are available. Additional buses will be added based on demand.

The county opened two additional shelters in Central Maui as existing shelters reached capacity. The new shelters are located at King’s Cathedral at 777 Maui Veterans Highway in Kahului, and another at The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at 1300 Maui Lani Parkway in Kahului.

The shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care owners. Pets brought to the shelters need to be properly restrained.

Maui Fire Department officials planned to conduct an assessment of the fires at first light this morning. Three active fires have been burning in Lahaina, Upcountry and Pulehu since Tuesday.

County officials confirmed 36 deaths so far due to the Lahaina fires and more than 271 structures burned in Lahaina town. The size of the fires and containment numbers have been unavailable, as emergency and government officials say they are focusing on fighting the fires and assessment will come later.

5 fatalities confirmed amid active Lahaina fire
Update: 9:10 p.m., Thursday, Aug. 10, 2023

As firefighting efforts continue, two additional fatalities have been confirmed this evening amid the active Lahaina fire. This brings the death toll to 55 people. Thirty-six fatalities were confirmed as of Wednesday, Aug. 9, 2023. Another 17 were confirmed midday today, Aug. 10, 2023. Two were added by end of day today.

Governor Josh Green, M.D., Mayor Bissen, U.S. Senator Brian Schatz, Major General Kenneth Hara, and various federal and county government officials joined together on Maui to provide a coordinated update on the status of Maui’s damage and ongoing efforts to support those affected from the Maui wildfires. The event was livestreamed on Maui Now’s Facebook page and sought to share the latest news after an on the ground assessment of the affected areas.

“What we saw today was likely the largest natural disaster in Hawai‘i state history,” said Governor Green. “It’s going to take a great deal of time to recover from this, but we have the support from every level of government all the way up to the federal level, especially given President Biden’s approval of my disaster declaration request today. It will be a tremendous effort, but we will come together as a community and begin working toward rebuilding from this tragedy.”


Government officials joined together on Maui to provide a coordinated update on the status of Maui’s damage and ongoing efforts to support those affected from the Maui wildfires. PC: Office of Governor Josh Green (8.10.23)
Federal Disaster Assistance
Update: 8 p.m., Aug. 10, 2023

The Federal designation of the disaster has opened up FEMA resources. Here is the contact information for families:

Disaster assistance: If you are impacted by the fires in Hawaiʻi, visit DisasterAssistance.gov, call 800-621-FEMA (3362) or download the FEMA App for more information on available resources.

Thousands of travelers are attempting leave Maui as crews continue to battle wildfires across the island. Kahului Airport. PC: Kalani Prince (8.9.23)
Airlines add more flights on Friday, for evacuees fleeing Maui
Update: 9:44 p.m., Aug. 10, 2023

The Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation has announced additional flights out of Kahului, Maui on Friday, Aug. 11, to support the ongoing evacuation of West Maui. There are additional flights added on Hawaiian and Southwest Airlines to Honolulu from Kahului.

Seats are available on scheduled departures from noon through 9:45 p.m. If you were unable to get a flight out before then, please try again. There is an Emergency Assistance Center at the Hawaiʻi Convention Center in Honolulu offering meals, water, and help to booking lodging and travel for evacuees.

Extra Flights / Times / Destination / Seats
WN8931 / 12:10 p.m. / HNL / Available
WN8933 / 3:25 p.m. / HNL / Available
WN8935 / 6:40 p.m. / HNL / Available
HA1103 / 4:09 p.m. / HNL / Available
HA1104 / 6:35 p.m. / HNL / Available
HA1101 / 7:25 p.m. / HNL / Available
Scheduled Flight / Time / Destination / Seats
HA505 / 7:15 p.m. / HNL / Available
HA535 / 7:48 p.m. / HNL / Available
HA545 / 8:15 p.m. / HNL / Available
HA565 / 8:45 p.m. / HNL / Available
HA575 / 9:45  p.m. / HNL / Available

County of Maui to air daily public updates on Maui radio stations
Update: 9:06 p.m., Aut. 10, 2023

Starting Friday, Aug. 11, 2023, radio stations on Maui will air County of Maui updates on the Lahaina wildfire incident at 9 a.m., noon and 3 p.m.

Radio updates will supplement information posted on the county’s website, Facebook and Instagram pages.

Maui radio stations include the following:

Pacific Media Group on KPOA FM 92.9 (west side) / FM 93.5; KJKS FM 99.3 (west side) / FM 99.9 FM; KJMD FM 107.1 (west side) / FM 98.3; KHLI FM 101.7 (west side) / FM 92.5; KMVI AM 900 / FM 102.5; and KNUI AM 550 / FM 106.1
KAOI Radio Group on 1110 AM / 96.7 FM
KPMW FM 105.5
Akaku’s KAKU 88.5
West Maui public school campuses to remain closed through next week
Update: Aug. 10, 2023

HIDOE’s four public school campuses in Lāhainā will remain shut down for an additional week, through Friday, Aug. 18.

Lahainaluna High
Lāhainā Intermediate
Princess Nāhi‘ena‘ena Elementary
King Kamehameha III Elementary
While the Department is working to solidify next steps for what school operations will look like for West Maui, we are also making sure all students, staff and families are accounted for. The extended closures are also aimed at allowing students, families and staff to care for themselves and loved ones and start to reestablish their bearings during this stressful and devastating time.

Damage assessments of the Lāhainā campuses are pending safe access to the sites. A HIDOE representative was able to confirm the severe fire and structural damage to King Kamehameha III Elementary on Front Street in Lāhainā on Thursday. The Department is working with emergency response officials to gain access to the area as soon as safely possible to assess the scope and degree of damage to each of the Lahaina schools.

For all other Maui public schools, an update on reopening plans will be made tomorrow. Schools in Upcountry, South and Central Maui will have phased reopening plans to first bring back staff, followed by students. This will give school teams time to assess damage and capacity to welcome students back safely.

In response to the outpouring of generosity and support toward the recovery of our West Maui school communities, the Department is partnering with the Public Schools of Hawai‘i Foundation to support our impacted school communities. The most immediate need and request from our Maui schools is for monetary donations that can provide direct support for response efforts. Learn more at bit.ly/HelpMauiSchools.


Video footage from today (8.10.23) shows the view on the ground from the Lahaina Bypass and Keawe Street; and driving southbound into Lahaina. VC: DONOVAN FAYD for Maui Now (8.10.23)

State, local and federal authorities provided an update on the Maui wildfires during a press briefing this afternoon. Police Chief John Pelliteir described the damage as a scar on the face of Maui. He called for patience and prayer as responders work. Fire Chief Brad Ventura provided us with an update on the latest firefighting efforts across Maui. The full press conference is available HERE.

Road Closure at Māʻalaea. PC: Donovan Fayd (8.10.23)
West Maui Road Update
Update: 4 p.m., Aug. 10, 2023

Access to Lahaina on both sides remains closed for emergency traffic only.

The public is permitted to leave the west side via the Lahaina Bypass only.

Kahakuloa residents only will be allowed to leave the west side via Waiheʻe.

Residents of Kahakuloa, Honokōwai and Kāʻanapali, and essential Kāʻanapali resort staff only may access Kahakuloa via Waiheʻe (ID required).

Press briefing on Lahaina Wildfire
Update: 3:30 p.m., Aug. 10, 2023

State, local and federal authorities provided an update on the Maui wildfires during a press briefing this afternoon.  Governor Josh Green said the funding for the disaster will be in the billions of dollars, and it will take many years to rebuild. He also called the current situation possibly the largest natural disaster in Hawaiʻi history.  

While 53 deaths have already been confirmed, more are expected and search and recovery continues.   Mayor Bissen said the current phase is focused on saving lives and gaining fire containment.

Officials are looking to eventually house thousands of displaced residents utilizing 2,000 rooms.

Police Chief John Pelliteir described the damage as a scar on the face of Maui. He called for patience and prayer as responders work. According to police traffic into West Maui is limited to first responders.  

Fire Chief Brad Ventura provided us with an update on the latest firefighting efforts, which is not only limited to Lahaina Town, but other wildfires that are burning in other parts of the island.


DONATIONS BEING DELIVERED INTO WEST MAUI: Aug. 10, 2023; There are multiple drop off and pick up efforts happening on the West Side in an effort to get supplies to people in need. This video from today (8.10.23) shows a group helping take in supplies donated and transported by Love The Sea and Ainaʻs Tractor Service. VC: Donovan Fayd (8.10.23)
53 fatalities confirmed amid active Lahaina fire
Update: 1:12 p.m., Aug. 10, 2023

As firefighting efforts continue, 17 additional fatalities have been confirmed today amid the active Lahaina fire. This brings the death toll to 53 people.

Thirty-six fatalities were confirmed as of Wednesday, Aug. 9, 2023. Another 17 were confirmed midday today, Aug. 10, 2023.

The status of all three fires remains unchanged from the last update at 10:30 a.m. this morning.


Wildfire aftermath on Front Street. PC: Donovan Fayd (8.9.23)
Alaska Airlines adds flight tonight, to return with supplies
Update: 2:48 p.m., Aug. 10, 2023

While Alaska Airlines does not normally operate flights between the Hawaiian Islands, it has added an extra flight between Kahului Airport and Honolulu tonight, (Aug. 10), to help move guests off of Maui.  The flight will also return to Maui with critical supplies from O‘ahu.  Flight #AS9265 departs Maui at 9 p.m. and arrives in Honolulu at 10 p.m. The flight can be purchased for $19 on Kayak and Google Flights, or by calling Alaska Airlines Reservations at 1-800-252-7522.

Hawaiian Electric assisting West Maui emergency
Update: 2:27 p.m., Aug. 10, 2023

Hawaiian Electric is currently coordinating and assisting with State and County emergency response efforts in West Maui.

Hawaiian Electric is currently coordinating and assisting with State and County emergency response efforts in West Maui.

As part of this response effort, the company is currently focusing on:

Ensuring safety and supporting the State and County emergency response, which includes crews assisting with first clearing and maintaining access to impacted areas in West Maui today
Starting critical damage assessments to begin restoration efforts once areas are safe and accessible
Asking West Maui customers without power to prepare for extended outages that could last several weeks in some areas.
Approximately 12,400 customers in West Maui remain without power as access continues to be limited to many impacted areas due to safety and emergency response concerns. Damage assessments and restoration efforts will advance as areas become safe and accessible.

In Upcountry, crews are also making progress and are working to restore a remaining small pocket of Upcountry customers at this time. Additional crews and resources from O‘ahu, Hawai‘i Island and Lāna‘i have been deployed to assist with massive response efforts, and the company’s Incident Management Team continues to coordinate closely with Hawai‘i’s Emergency Management Agency and other emergency response organizations.  Full report HERE.


US Coast Guard Hawaiʻi – Pacific. (8.10.23)
Coast Guard continues response to West Maui wildfire, search and rescue continues
Update: 1:11 p.m., Aug. 10, 2023

The US Coast Guard, along with federal, state, and local partners continue to respond to Lahaina where a wildfire destroyed hundreds of businesses and homes. 

A total of 17 lives were saved from the water and 40 survivors were located ashore by Coast Guard Station Maui boat crews. The Coast Guard has no reports of missing persons in the water, however Coast Guard aircrews and surface assets continue search and rescue operations.

“Today, our assets remain actively engaged in the search and rescue response and our responders are operating and searching as though there may still be survivors in need of assistance,” said Capt. Aja L. Kirksey, Sector Commander of Coast Guard Sector Honolulu.  

US Coast Guard aircrews are also supporting overflight assessments of the impacted area and are transporting additional personnel with specialized training and equipment to assist in the response efforts. Wednesday, Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke flew aboard a Coast Guard C-130 to assess the fire damage and observe response efforts firsthand.  Full report HERE.

Maui Visitors Relocated Off-Island

Through efforts of airline, hotel, and ground transportation partners, more than 14,000 people were moved off the island of Maui on Wednesday, Aug. 9, to return home or continue with their vacation elsewhere in Hawai‘i. By the end of Thursday, it is estimated that an additional 14,500 people will be moved off Maui. More tourism industry updates HERE.

Family Assistance Center open today and Friday for those seeking information about loved ones who are unaccounted for in wildfires
Update: 11:53 a.m., Aug. 10, 2023

A Family Assistance Center is open at Kahului Community Center for family members who are looking for information about loved ones who are unaccounted for and may be affected by the wildfires on Maui. The center at 275 Uhu St. is open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. today and Friday. Hours after Friday have not been set. The Maui Emergency Management Agency will pass out forms to be filled out to help in the process of locating unaccounted for family members. People trying to locate loved ones who may be impacted by the fires also can call the American Red Cross hotline at 1-800-733-2767.

Lahaina fire reported 80% contained, progress reported in firefighting effort
10:54 a.m., Aug. 10, 2023

A wildfire that caused widespread damage in Lahaina town was 80% contained this morning. Fire crews continue to battle active fires in Pūlehu/Kīhei and Upcountry/Kula as well.

In Lahaina, firefighting crews further secured the perimeter of wildland areas that burned. That effort is continuing today, along with patrolling areas where structures burned. Civil Air Patrol flyovers Wednesday of Lahaina Town showed more than 270 structures were impacted by the fire.

The Pūlehu fire, in an area mauka of Kīhei, was 70% contained this morning, after heavy equipment was used to create firebreaks through the night. Firefighters are continuing to secure the perimeter this morning.

A containment percentage for the fire Upcountry is pending further assessment. Firefighting efforts focused on two main areas of Olinda and Upper Kula. Firefighting crews are continuing efforts to protect structures and extinguish smoldering hot spots. State forestry workers were leading the firefighting effort in the Olinda area. On the Kula side, the fire is most active in gulches that are difficult to access.

Entry into Lahaina remains restricted while the firefighting efforts continue. Lahaina-bound vehicles are being stopped on Honoapiʻilani Highway at Māʻalaea. Honoapiʻilani Highway is only open to outbound traffic leaving West Maui. Motorists can also leave West Maui through Waiheʻe. Only Kahakuloa residents may access the village through Waiheʻe.

Lahaina remains without power. There were an estimated 12,400 West Maui customers without power at last report. State and county crews are working to clear roads and other areas of trees and debris.

Buses were sent to the Ritz-Carlton, Kapalua and Whalers Village in Kāʻanapali this morning to continue the mass transport of visitors to Kahului Airport.

Emergency evacuation shelters at War Memorial Complex in Wailuku, Maui High School in Kahului and Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani housed about 1,050 people overnight. Another 300 residents and visitors stayed at emergency evacuation shelters opened Wednesday night at Kingʻs Cathedral Maui in Kahului and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Maui Lani. Many of the visitors were taken to Kahului Airport this morning.

Some visitors who took flights from Maui to Honolulu on Wednesday were among 18 people sheltered at the Hawaiʻi Convention Center on Oahu.

Kahului Airport reported that 1,400 people stayed overnight Wednesday while waiting to take flights departing Maui this morning. Airlines have added additional flights for visitors leaving Maui.

People trying to locate loved ones who may be impacted by the fires can call the American Red Cross hotline at 1-800-733-2767.

Info on reuniting with loved ones
Update: 10:15 a.m., Aug. 10, 2023

Individuals wishing to reunite with loved ones who may be impacted by the fires can call the American Red Cross hotline at 1-800-733-2767.

Also,  Maui Health is asking families who are looking for loved ones at Maui Memorial Medical Center to call the main hospital line at 808-244-9056 and provide a first and last name to verify whether their family member is being treated at MMMC. 

To contact Kula Hospital residents and patients, please call 808-878-1221. If prompted, leave a voice message with your name and contact information and a hospital representative will return the call as soon as possible.

Haleakalā NP’s Summit and Kīpahulu Districts remain closed through morning of Aug. 14
Update: 11:10 a.m., Aug. 10, 2023

Haleakalā National Park’s Summit and Kīpahulu Districts remain closed through the morning of August 14, 2023. Visitors should not plan to drive to or visit the park until it has been officially reopened. We ask for patience and the public’s cooperation during this time.  

Camping reservations for Hosmer Grove, backcountry tent camping and cabins, and Kīpahulu campground for Aug. 10, 2023 through Aug. 14,2023 are canceled. Sunrise reservations for Aug. 11, 2023 through Aug. 14, 2023 are canceled.  

Any changes in the park’s status will be posted at www.nps.gov/hale. 

Maui Police ask for patience as fire suppression continues
Update: 10 a.m., Aug. 10, 2023

The Maui Police Department extends our deepest condolences to the families of those who lost loved ones, their homes, or businesses.  We are asking the community for their patience as first responders continue their efforts to suppress the active fire and prevent it from spreading to other areas. 

Right now, our priority is to ensure the safety of first responders and expedite our process of evaluating the Lahaina Town area.  We have dedicated teams consisting of MPD, Hawaii National Guard, and Maui Search and Rescue personnel currently processing the area.

Due to biohazard and safety concerns, no unauthorized entry into the area is allowed at this time. We appreciate the cooperation of our community at this challenging time so we can collectively mitigate potential safety risks.

Arrangements to allow residents into the area will be announced at a later time.

President Joseph Biden approves Hawaiʻi Disaster Declaration
Update: 7:14 a.m., Aug. 10, 2023

Today, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. declared that a major disaster exists in the State of Hawaiʻi and ordered Federal aid to supplement state and local recovery efforts in the areas affected by wildfires beginning on August 8, 2023, and continuing.

The President’s action makes Federal funding available to affected individuals in Maui County.

Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster. Further details are posted HERE.

Flags lowered in mourning of lives lost in Maui wildfires
Update: 7:08 a.m., Aug. 10, 2023

Gov. Josh Green, M.D., has ordered that the United States flag and the Hawai‘i state flag be flown at half-staff at the Hawai‘i State Capitol and at all state offices and agencies, as well as at Hawai‘i National Guard facilities in the State of Hawai‘i, effective immediately, in mourning of those lost from the Maui wildfires. The flags will remain lowered until further notice while recovery efforts are underway.

Residents and visitors in West Maui impacted by brush fire to be transported to Kahului Airport or Central Maui shelter
Update: 3:51 a.m., Aug. 10, 2023

A mass bus evacuation for residents and visitors in West Maui will resume at 8:30 a.m. on Thursday, Aug. 10. Bus boarding will be staged at Whalers Village entryway fronting Kāʻanapali Parkway. Visitors will be taken directly to the Kahului Airport. Residents will be taken to a Central Maui shelter. Three Roberts Hawaiʻi Motor coaches, each with a capacity of 49 people will be available. Additional buses from partner agencies will be added in based on demand. 

Two additional shelters opened in Central Maui
Update: 1:31 a.m., Aug. 10, 2023

The County of Maui opened two additional emergency evacuation shelters—at King’s Cathedral Maui at 777 Maui Veteran’s Highway in Kahului and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 1300 Maui Lani Parkway in Kahului. The additional shelter sites were opened in order to accommodate full occupancy at existing shelters locations.

Evacuees are reminded that emergency shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care items. Pet owners utilizing the shelter will need to have pets properly restrained.

Death toll rises with 36 fatalities in Lahaina
Update: 10 p.m., Aug. 9, 2023 

As firefighting efforts continue, 36 fatalities have been discovered amid the active Lahaina fire. The 36 total includes the six deaths reported earlier on Wednesday.


Mayor Bissen offers a public message in light of recent tragedies. 1 a.m., Aug. 10, 2023



Sections
SUBSCRIBE
LOG IN
Show Search
ADVERTISEMENT
WORLD & NATION
‘A scar on the face of Maui’: Lahaina is gutted; fatalities expected to multiply
A fire swept through Lahaina, Hawaii, devastating areas including its waterfront.
A fire swept through Lahaina, Hawaii, devastating areas including its waterfront. (Rick Bowmer/Associated Press)
BY ALEXANDRA E. PETRI, JACK HERRERA, JAWEED KALEEM, SUMMER LIN, JEREMY CHILDS
PUBLISHED AUG. 9, 2023 UPDATED AUG. 10, 2023 9:15 PM PT
Facebook
Twitter
Show more sharing options
At least 53 people have died, dozens have been injured and hundreds of structures have been destroyed as fires have torn through Maui this week, forcing thousands to flee their homes and reducing much of the historic town of Lahaina to ash.

“What we saw was likely the largest natural disaster in Hawaii state history,” Gov. Josh Green said in a public briefing Thursday.

Green issued a fourth emergency proclamation Thursday night to expedite aid to the western Maui communities devastated by the fires. The Lahaina wildfire raced with such speed that some of those fleeing jumped into the ocean to escape the flames and later were rescued by the Coast Guard.

Maui County officials said Thursday afternoon that at least 53 had died in the Lahaina fire, and the death toll was expected to increase in the coming days. One Lahaina resident, Tiffany Kidder Winn, saw a row of burned-out vehicles in the road, some of which contained charred bodies.

ADVERTISEMENT
“It looked like they were trying to get out but were stuck in traffic and couldn’t get off Front Street,” she told the Associated Press, referring to the seafront roadway that was the site of multiple retail shops and restaurants.

An estimated 1,700 structures were damaged or destroyed by wildfire, including many small businesses, a church and a school, according to Gov. Green.

“Right now, we have a scar on the face of Maui that will be here for a very long time,” said Maui Police Chief John Pelletier. “Scars heal in time, but they always remain.”

Green said Thursday he expected the cost of the recovery to be in the “billions of dollars.” Accuweather had a preliminary estimate of damage and economic loss at $8 billion to $10 billion.

Three blazes — the Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry fires — remained active Thursday, officials said. None of the fires had been fully contained by 3 p.m. Hawaiian time Thursday, according to Maui Fire Chief Bradford Ventura.Officials said they were still battling flare-ups and that two C-47 National Guard helicopters were standing by for deployment.

“This is a deeply somber day,” Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said. “The gravity of losing any life is tragic. As we grieve with their families, we offer prayers for comfort in this inconsolable time.”

President Biden on Thursday declared “a major disaster” in the island state, opening the door to federal funding and state and local recovery efforts. Residents affected by the fires can apply for “grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses” and other federal programs for business owners and residents, the White House said in a statement. The declaration also makes federal funding available to state and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations.

CORRECTS DATE TO AUG. 8 - People watch as smoke and flames fill the air from raging wildfires on Front Street in downtown Lahaina, Maui on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023. Maui officials say wildfire in the historic town has burned parts of one of the most popular tourist areas in Hawaii. County of Maui spokesperson Mahina Martin said in a phone interview early Wednesday says fire was widespread in Lahaina, including Front Street, an area of the town popular with tourists. (Alan Dickar via AP)
WORLD & NATION

‘Gone forever’: Fire devastates historic Lahaina, former capital of the Hawaiian kingdom
Aug. 10, 2023

ADVERTISEMENT
At least 11,000 travelers were evacuated from Maui, officials said. The fires overpowered and closed many roads, which became congested and stranded hundreds of people as they raced to the island’s only major airport, Kahului. About 1,400 people stayed overnight at the airport, and many more were expected to arrive Thursday. Airlines have said they are adding more flights, reducing ticket prices and deploying bigger planes to aid evacuation efforts.


Crowds of people fill the Kahului Airport.
On Wednesday, Kahului Airport on Maui was full of people waiting for flights off the island. (Rick Bowmer / Associated Press)
As winds diminished Wednesday, some aircraft resumed flights, enabling pilots to view the full scope of the devastation. Flyovers of the coastal town of Lahaina by U.S. Civil Air Patrol and the Maui Fire Department showed the extent of the loss, said Mahina Martin, a spokesperson for Maui County.

Aerial video showed dozens of homes and businesses flattened, including on Front Street, where tourists once gathered to shop and dine. Smoking heaps of rubble lay piled high next to the waterfront, boats in the harbor were scorched, and gray smoke hovered over the leafless skeletons of charred trees.

Rebuilding the local economy could take years, Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said, adding that the blazes remade the landscape, from destroying homes and businesses to taking down infrastructure and broadband capabilities. “It will be a long road to recovery,” she said.

An estimated 2,000 people have stayed in at least six shelters that have opened for evacuees, according to reports. The Red Cross said that some residents sought shelter overnight while others had visited during the day, seeking resources. State officials said the decision on when to allow residents to return to their homes would be made by Maui County officials and Mayor Bissen.

Maui fires
Red-shaded areas represent fire footprint detected by satellites through Thursday morning.Map of fire footprints as of Thurs., 8-10-23, on Maui.
© OpenStreetMap contributors
5 miles
NASA
Paul Duginski
LOS ANGELES TIMES
Although the rest of the state remains open, officials have asked visitors — a huge economic force — to leave Maui and urged others making nonessential trips to stay away from the island.

The airport was overrun with people trying to catch flights Thursday. Many major airlines do not offer short-distance flights between the Hawaiian islands, but carriers with major business on the island said they were doing what they could to respond to evacuation efforts and get passengers to the mainland.

The two largest airlines operating in Hawaii — Hawaiian Airlines and Southwest — have reduced fares to just $19 for flights leaving from Kahului to Honolulu International Airport on Oahu, where the Red Cross had opened shelters for evacuees.

Alaska Airlines said it would continue to operate its eight daily scheduled departures from Maui and also added a “rescue flight” Thursday to ferry more people off the island.

American Airlines said it was also adding flights out of Maui and upgrading planes to provide more seats.

United canceled flights to Kahului on Thursday so that planes could fly empty to Maui to return passengers to the mainland more readily.

A woman fans herself underneath a crawfish sign outside a grocery store in New Orleans. (Chris Granger/The Advocate via AP)
WORLD & NATION

Fires, floods, heatwaves. Is the extreme weather from coast to coast ‘a new abnormal’?
July 12, 2023

West Maui remained without cell or landline phone service or electricity, the county said. Officials were working to restore power to some 10,000 homes that remained without electricity Thursday.

The exact cause of the blaze couldn’t be determined, but a number of factors including high winds, low humidity and dry vegetation likely contributed, said Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, adjutant general for the Hawaii State Department of Defense. The weather service had issued a red flag warning — which indicates warm temperatures, very low humidity and stronger winds are expected to combine to produce an increased risk of fire danger — but Hara said wind strength far exceeded the predictions, which were expected to be around 50 to 55 mph but shot up to 85 mph.

Experts also said climate change is increasing the likelihood of more extreme weather.

An update from the National Drought Monitor early Thursday showed drought levels increased across the state from 6% to 14% in the last week. Maui County in particular saw an increase in severe drought conditions, from about 6% last week to 16% this week.

Map showing drought conditions on the Hawaiian islands, where large parts of western Maui is in severe and moderate drought.
© OpenStreetMap contributors
Conditions as of Aug. 8
U.S. Drought Monitor
Sean Greene
LOS ANGELES TIMES
Clay Trauernicht, a fire scientist at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa, said in a tweet that while a nearby hurricane played a role, the problem lies largely with widespread “unmanaged, nonnative grasslands” from “decades of declining agriculture.”

“The transformation to savanna makes the landscape way more sensitive to bad ‘fire weather’ — hot, dry, windy conditions,” Trauernicht said. “It also means we get huge buildups of fuels during rainy periods.”

Hara said he was “personally surprised by the amount of fires.” At least three blazes burned across Maui: in Lahaina, south Maui’s Kihei area and the mountainous and inland communities known as Upcountry.

Firefighters dropped 150,000 gallons of water Wednesday, but high winds obstructed their efforts.

Smoke and flames on a street.
Fire burns on Front Street in downtown Lahaina, Maui. (Alan Dickar via Associated Press)
In the upcountry Kula area, at least two homes were destroyed Tuesday in a fire that engulfed about 1.7 square miles, Bissen said.

There have been no reports of injuries or homes lost to three wildfires burning on Hawaii’s Big Island, Mayor Mitch Roth said Wednesday. Firefighters did extinguish a few roof fires.

The National Weather Service said Hurricane Dora, which was passing to the south of the island chain at a safe distance of 500 miles, was partly to blame for gusts above 60 mph that knocked out power, rattled homes and grounded firefighting helicopters.

Smoke fills a harbor as seen from the water.
Smoke fills the air at Lahaina harbor on Maui on Tuesday as deadly, wind-fueled wildfires hit Hawaii. (Brantin Stevens / Associated Press)
Luke activated the Hawaii National Guard to assist. Biden said the Coast Guard and Navy were supporting the response and rescue efforts, while the Marines were providing Black Hawk helicopters to fight the fires.

“Local people have lost everything,” said James Tokioka, director of the Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism. “They’ve lost their house, they’ve lost their animals.”

Former President Obama, who was born in Hawaii, said on social media Wednesday evening that it was tough to see some of the images coming out of a place that is so special to many.

“Michelle and I are thinking of everyone who has lost a loved one, or whose life has been turned upside down,” he said.

Ke’eaumoku Kapu, the owner of the Na Aikane o Maui cultural center in Lahaina, said he and his wife didn’t have time to pack up anything before being forced to flee. “We had years and years of research material, artifacts,” he said.

Newsletter
Record heat. Raging fires. What are the solutions?

Get Boiling Point, our newsletter about climate change, the environment and building a more sustainable California.

Enter email address
Enter email address
SIGN ME UP
You may occasionally receive promotional content from the Los Angeles Times.
Alan Dickar said he wasn’t sure what remained of his Vintage European Posters gallery, which was a fixture on Front Street in Lahaina for 23 years. Before evacuating with three friends and two cats, Dickar recorded video of flames engulfing the main strip of shops and restaurants frequented by tourists.

“Every significant thing I owned burned down today,” he said.

Leader of the Calaveras band of Mi-Wuk Indians Adam Lewis sang Native songs and prayed for The Orphans' survival Sunday, June 11, 2023 at Calaveras Big Trees State Park.
CALIFORNIA

Anger builds after controlled burn badly damages California sequoias
July 12, 2023

Lahaina is often thought of as just a Maui tourist town, said Tiare Lawrence, who lives nearby and had relatives evacuate to her home, but “we have a very strong Hawaiian community.”

“I’m just heartbroken,” she said. “Everyone’s lives have tragically changed in the last 12 hours.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

WORLD & NATIONFIRES



Jack Herrera
Twitter
Instagram
Email
Facebook
Jack Herrera is a national correspondent for the Los Angeles Times, based out of Austin, Texas.


Jaweed Kaleem
Twitter
Instagram
Email
Facebook
Jaweed Kaleem is a national correspondent at the Los Angeles Times. Based in L.A. with a focus on issues outside of California, he has traveled to dozens of states to cover news and deeply reported features on the complexity of the American experience. His articles frequently explore race, religion, politics, social debates and polarized society. Kaleem was previously based in London, where he was a lead news writer on Russia’s war on Ukraine and spearheaded European coverage for the Times, including the Global California initiative. Before joining The Times in 2016, he reported on religion for HuffPost and the Miami Herald, where he was a member of a Pulitzer Prize finalist team recognized for coverage of Haiti. His reporting has also received awards from the Society of Professional Journalists, the Society for Features Journalism, the Asian American Journalists Assn., the South Asian Journalists Assn. and the National Headliner Awards.


Summer Lin
Twitter
Instagram
Email
Facebook
Summer Lin is a reporter on the Fast Break Desk, the Los Angeles Times’ breaking news team. Before coming to The Times, she covered breaking news for the Mercury News and national politics and California courts for McClatchy’s publications, including the Sacramento Bee. An East Coast native, Lin moved to California after graduating from Boston College and Columbia University’s Graduate School of Journalism. In her free time, she enjoys hikes, skiing and a good Brooklyn bagel.


Jeremy Childs
Twitter
Instagram
Email
Facebook
Jeremy Childs is the night reporter on the Fast Break Desk, the Los Angeles Times’ breaking news team. Before joining the newsroom in 2023, he worked at the Ventura County Star, where he covered breaking news and most recently served as the newspaper’s East Ventura County reporter. Childs grew up in Newbury Park and graduated from Occidental College with a degree in English and comparative literary studies.

MORE FROM THE LOS ANGELES TIMES
Lahaina, Maui, Thursday, August 11, 2023 - An aerial view of Lahaina days after a wind fueled wildfire gutted the area.. (Robert Gauthier/Los Angeles Times)
WORLD & NATION

Grim task of finding, identifying Maui fire victims intensifies: ‘Obviously no survivors left’
4 minutes ago

Trixy Nuesca-Ganer looks through the ashes of their family's home in the aftermath of a wildfire in Lahaina, western Maui, Hawaii on August 11, 2023. A wildfire that left Lahaina in charred ruins has killed at least 67 people, authorities said on August 11, making it one of the deadliest disasters in the US state's history. Brushfires on Maui, fueled by high winds from Hurricane Dora passing to the south of Hawaii, broke out August 8 and rapidly engulfed Lahaina. (Photo by Patrick T. Fallon / AFP) (Photo by PATRICK T. FALLON/AFP via Getty Images)
WORLD & NATION

‘There are bodies everywhere’: In devastation of Maui fire, California’s past horrors lurk
2 hours ago

In this photo provided by Tiffany Kidder Winn, burned-out cars sit after a wildfire raged through Lahaina, Hawaii, on Wednesday, Aug. 9, 2023. The scene at one of Maui's tourist hubs on Thursday looked like a wasteland, with homes and entire blocks reduced to ashes as firefighters as firefighters battled the deadliest blaze in the U.S. in recent years. (Tiffany Kidder Winn via AP)
CALIFORNIA







Sections
SUBSCRIBE
LOG IN
Show Search
ADVERTISEMENT
WORLD & NATION
‘A scar on the face of Maui’: Lahaina is gutted; fatalities expected to multiply
A fire swept through Lahaina, Hawaii, devastating areas including its waterfront.
A fire swept through Lahaina, Hawaii, devastating areas including its waterfront. (Rick Bowmer/Associated Press)
BY ALEXANDRA E. PETRI, JACK HERRERA, JAWEED KALEEM, SUMMER LIN, JEREMY CHILDS
PUBLISHED AUG. 9, 2023 UPDATED AUG. 10, 2023 9:15 PM PT
Facebook
Twitter
Show more sharing options
At least 53 people have died, dozens have been injured and hundreds of structures have been destroyed as fires have torn through Maui this week, forcing thousands to flee their homes and reducing much of the historic town of Lahaina to ash.

“What we saw was likely the largest natural disaster in Hawaii state history,” Gov. Josh Green said in a public briefing Thursday.

Green issued a fourth emergency proclamation Thursday night to expedite aid to the western Maui communities devastated by the fires. The Lahaina wildfire raced with such speed that some of those fleeing jumped into the ocean to escape the flames and later were rescued by the Coast Guard.

Maui County officials said Thursday afternoon that at least 53 had died in the Lahaina fire, and the death toll was expected to increase in the coming days. One Lahaina resident, Tiffany Kidder Winn, saw a row of burned-out vehicles in the road, some of which contained charred bodies.

ADVERTISEMENT
“It looked like they were trying to get out but were stuck in traffic and couldn’t get off Front Street,” she told the Associated Press, referring to the seafront roadway that was the site of multiple retail shops and restaurants.

An estimated 1,700 structures were damaged or destroyed by wildfire, including many small businesses, a church and a school, according to Gov. Green.

“Right now, we have a scar on the face of Maui that will be here for a very long time,” said Maui Police Chief John Pelletier. “Scars heal in time, but they always remain.”

Green said Thursday he expected the cost of the recovery to be in the “billions of dollars.” Accuweather had a preliminary estimate of damage and economic loss at $8 billion to $10 billion.

Three blazes — the Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry fires — remained active Thursday, officials said. None of the fires had been fully contained by 3 p.m. Hawaiian time Thursday, according to Maui Fire Chief Bradford Ventura.Officials said they were still battling flare-ups and that two C-47 National Guard helicopters were standing by for deployment.

“This is a deeply somber day,” Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said. “The gravity of losing any life is tragic. As we grieve with their families, we offer prayers for comfort in this inconsolable time.”

President Biden on Thursday declared “a major disaster” in the island state, opening the door to federal funding and state and local recovery efforts. Residents affected by the fires can apply for “grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses” and other federal programs for business owners and residents, the White House said in a statement. The declaration also makes federal funding available to state and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations.

CORRECTS DATE TO AUG. 8 - People watch as smoke and flames fill the air from raging wildfires on Front Street in downtown Lahaina, Maui on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023. Maui officials say wildfire in the historic town has burned parts of one of the most popular tourist areas in Hawaii. County of Maui spokesperson Mahina Martin said in a phone interview early Wednesday says fire was widespread in Lahaina, including Front Street, an area of the town popular with tourists. (Alan Dickar via AP)
WORLD & NATION

‘Gone forever’: Fire devastates historic Lahaina, former capital of the Hawaiian kingdom
Aug. 10, 2023

ADVERTISEMENT
At least 11,000 travelers were evacuated from Maui, officials said. The fires overpowered and closed many roads, which became congested and stranded hundreds of people as they raced to the island’s only major airport, Kahului. About 1,400 people stayed overnight at the airport, and many more were expected to arrive Thursday. Airlines have said they are adding more flights, reducing ticket prices and deploying bigger planes to aid evacuation efforts.


Crowds of people fill the Kahului Airport.
On Wednesday, Kahului Airport on Maui was full of people waiting for flights off the island. (Rick Bowmer / Associated Press)
As winds diminished Wednesday, some aircraft resumed flights, enabling pilots to view the full scope of the devastation. Flyovers of the coastal town of Lahaina by U.S. Civil Air Patrol and the Maui Fire Department showed the extent of the loss, said Mahina Martin, a spokesperson for Maui County.

Aerial video showed dozens of homes and businesses flattened, including on Front Street, where tourists once gathered to shop and dine. Smoking heaps of rubble lay piled high next to the waterfront, boats in the harbor were scorched, and gray smoke hovered over the leafless skeletons of charred trees.

Rebuilding the local economy could take years, Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said, adding that the blazes remade the landscape, from destroying homes and businesses to taking down infrastructure and broadband capabilities. “It will be a long road to recovery,” she said.

An estimated 2,000 people have stayed in at least six shelters that have opened for evacuees, according to reports. The Red Cross said that some residents sought shelter overnight while others had visited during the day, seeking resources. State officials said the decision on when to allow residents to return to their homes would be made by Maui County officials and Mayor Bissen.

Maui fires
Red-shaded areas represent fire footprint detected by satellites through Thursday morning.Map of fire footprints as of Thurs., 8-10-23, on Maui.
© OpenStreetMap contributors
5 miles
NASA
Paul Duginski
LOS ANGELES TIMES
Although the rest of the state remains open, officials have asked visitors — a huge economic force — to leave Maui and urged others making nonessential trips to stay away from the island.

The airport was overrun with people trying to catch flights Thursday. Many major airlines do not offer short-distance flights between the Hawaiian islands, but carriers with major business on the island said they were doing what they could to respond to evacuation efforts and get passengers to the mainland.

The two largest airlines operating in Hawaii — Hawaiian Airlines and Southwest — have reduced fares to just $19 for flights leaving from Kahului to Honolulu International Airport on Oahu, where the Red Cross had opened shelters for evacuees.

Alaska Airlines said it would continue to operate its eight daily scheduled departures from Maui and also added a “rescue flight” Thursday to ferry more people off the island.

American Airlines said it was also adding flights out of Maui and upgrading planes to provide more seats.

United canceled flights to Kahului on Thursday so that planes could fly empty to Maui to return passengers to the mainland more readily.

A woman fans herself underneath a crawfish sign outside a grocery store in New Orleans. (Chris Granger/The Advocate via AP)
WORLD & NATION

Fires, floods, heatwaves. Is the extreme weather from coast to coast ‘a new abnormal’?
July 12, 2023

West Maui remained without cell or landline phone service or electricity, the county said. Officials were working to restore power to some 10,000 homes that remained without electricity Thursday.

The exact cause of the blaze couldn’t be determined, but a number of factors including high winds, low humidity and dry vegetation likely contributed, said Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, adjutant general for the Hawaii State Department of Defense. The weather service had issued a red flag warning — which indicates warm temperatures, very low humidity and stronger winds are expected to combine to produce an increased risk of fire danger — but Hara said wind strength far exceeded the predictions, which were expected to be around 50 to 55 mph but shot up to 85 mph.

Experts also said climate change is increasing the likelihood of more extreme weather.

An update from the National Drought Monitor early Thursday showed drought levels increased across the state from 6% to 14% in the last week. Maui County in particular saw an increase in severe drought conditions, from about 6% last week to 16% this week.

Map showing drought conditions on the Hawaiian islands, where large parts of western Maui is in severe and moderate drought.
© OpenStreetMap contributors
Conditions as of Aug. 8
U.S. Drought Monitor
Sean Greene
LOS ANGELES TIMES
Clay Trauernicht, a fire scientist at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa, said in a tweet that while a nearby hurricane played a role, the problem lies largely with widespread “unmanaged, nonnative grasslands” from “decades of declining agriculture.”

“The transformation to savanna makes the landscape way more sensitive to bad ‘fire weather’ — hot, dry, windy conditions,” Trauernicht said. “It also means we get huge buildups of fuels during rainy periods.”

Hara said he was “personally surprised by the amount of fires.” At least three blazes burned across Maui: in Lahaina, south Maui’s Kihei area and the mountainous and inland communities known as Upcountry.

Firefighters dropped 150,000 gallons of water Wednesday, but high winds obstructed their efforts.

Smoke and flames on a street.
Fire burns on Front Street in downtown Lahaina, Maui. (Alan Dickar via Associated Press)
In the upcountry Kula area, at least two homes were destroyed Tuesday in a fire that engulfed about 1.7 square miles, Bissen said.

There have been no reports of injuries or homes lost to three wildfires burning on Hawaii’s Big Island, Mayor Mitch Roth said Wednesday. Firefighters did extinguish a few roof fires.

The National Weather Service said Hurricane Dora, which was passing to the south of the island chain at a safe distance of 500 miles, was partly to blame for gusts above 60 mph that knocked out power, rattled homes and grounded firefighting helicopters.

Smoke fills a harbor as seen from the water.
Smoke fills the air at Lahaina harbor on Maui on Tuesday as deadly, wind-fueled wildfires hit Hawaii. (Brantin Stevens / Associated Press)
Luke activated the Hawaii National Guard to assist. Biden said the Coast Guard and Navy were supporting the response and rescue efforts, while the Marines were providing Black Hawk helicopters to fight the fires.

“Local people have lost everything,” said James Tokioka, director of the Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism. “They’ve lost their house, they’ve lost their animals.”

Former President Obama, who was born in Hawaii, said on social media Wednesday evening that it was tough to see some of the images coming out of a place that is so special to many.

“Michelle and I are thinking of everyone who has lost a loved one, or whose life has been turned upside down,” he said.

Ke’eaumoku Kapu, the owner of the Na Aikane o Maui cultural center in Lahaina, said he and his wife didn’t have time to pack up anything before being forced to flee. “We had years and years of research material, artifacts,” he said.

Newsletter
Record heat. Raging fires. What are the solutions?

Get Boiling Point, our newsletter about climate change, the environment and building a more sustainable California.

Enter email address
Enter email address
SIGN ME UP
You may occasionally receive promotional content from the Los Angeles Times.
Alan Dickar said he wasn’t sure what remained of his Vintage European Posters gallery, which was a fixture on Front Street in Lahaina for 23 years. Before evacuating with three friends and two cats, Dickar recorded video of flames engulfing the main strip of shops and restaurants frequented by tourists.

“Every significant thing I owned burned down today,” he said.

Leader of the Calaveras band of Mi-Wuk Indians Adam Lewis sang Native songs and prayed for The Orphans' survival Sunday, June 11, 2023 at Calaveras Big Trees State Park.
CALIFORNIA

Anger builds after controlled burn badly damages California sequoias
July 12, 2023

Lahaina is often thought of as just a Maui tourist town, said Tiare Lawrence, who lives nearby and had relatives evacuate to her home, but “we have a very strong Hawaiian community.”

“I’m just heartbroken,” she said. “Everyone’s lives have tragically changed in the last 12 hours.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

WORLD & NATIONFIRES
Newsletter
Must-read stories from the L.A. Times

Get the day's top news with our Today's Headlines newsletter, sent every weekday morning.



Alexandra E. Petri


Jack Herrera
Twitter
Instagram
Email
Facebook
Jack Herrera is a national correspondent for the Los Angeles Times, based out of Austin, Texas.


Jaweed Kaleem
Twitter
Instagram
Email
Facebook
Jaweed Kaleem is a national correspondent at the Los Angeles Times. Based in L.A. with a focus on issues outside of California, he has traveled to dozens of states to cover news and deeply reported features on the complexity of the American experience. His articles frequently explore race, religion, politics, social debates and polarized society. Kaleem was previously based in London, where he was a lead news writer on Russia’s war on Ukraine and spearheaded European coverage for the Times, including the Global California initiative. Before joining The Times in 2016, he reported on religion for HuffPost and the Miami Herald, where he was a member of a Pulitzer Prize finalist team recognized for coverage of Haiti. His reporting has also received awards from the Society of Professional Journalists, the Society for Features Journalism, the Asian American Journalists Assn., the South Asian Journalists Assn. and the National Headliner Awards.


Summer Lin
Twitter
Instagram
Email
Facebook
Summer Lin is a reporter on the Fast Break Desk, the Los Angeles Times’ breaking news team. Before coming to The Times, she covered breaking news for the Mercury News and national politics and California courts for McClatchy’s publications, including the Sacramento Bee. An East Coast native, Lin moved to California after graduating from Boston College and Columbia University’s Graduate School of Journalism. In her free time, she enjoys hikes, skiing and a good Brooklyn bagel.


Jeremy Childs
Twitter
Instagram
Email
Facebook
Jeremy Childs is the night reporter on the Fast Break Desk, the Los Angeles Times’ breaking news team. Before joining the newsroom in 2023, he worked at the Ventura County Star, where he covered breaking news and most recently served as the newspaper’s East Ventura County reporter. Childs grew up in Newbury Park and graduated from Occidental College with a degree in English and comparative literary studies.

MORE FROM THE LOS ANGELES TIMES
Lahaina, Maui, Thursday, August 11, 2023 - An aerial view of Lahaina days after a wind fueled wildfire gutted the area.. (Robert Gauthier/Los Angeles Times)
WORLD & NATION

Grim task of finding, identifying Maui fire victims intensifies: ‘Obviously no survivors left’
4 minutes ago

Trixy Nuesca-Ganer looks through the ashes of their family's home in the aftermath of a wildfire in Lahaina, western Maui, Hawaii on August 11, 2023. A wildfire that left Lahaina in charred ruins has killed at least 67 people, authorities said on August 11, making it one of the deadliest disasters in the US state's history. Brushfires on Maui, fueled by high winds from Hurricane Dora passing to the south of Hawaii, broke out August 8 and rapidly engulfed Lahaina. (Photo by Patrick T. Fallon / AFP) (Photo by PATRICK T. FALLON/AFP via Getty Images)
WORLD & NATION

‘There are bodies everywhere’: In devastation of Maui fire, California’s past horrors lurk
2 hours ago

In this photo provided by Tiffany Kidder Winn, burned-out cars sit after a wildfire raged through Lahaina, Hawaii, on Wednesday, Aug. 9, 2023. The scene at one of Maui's tourist hubs on Thursday looked like a wasteland, with homes and entire blocks reduced to ashes as firefighters as firefighters battled the deadliest blaze in the U.S. in recent years. (Tiffany Kidder Winn via AP)
CALIFORNIA

Hawaii’s attorney general opens probe into wildfire response
Aug. 12, 2023



 Sections
Honolulu Star-Advertiser logo
 Close
Make Longs a part of your day Longs Drugs logo
Subscribe
Activate
Home
Print Replica
Top News
Maui Wildfires
Election 2024
Russia Attacks Ukraine
Red Hill Water Crisis
Crime in Hawaii
America in Turmoil
Traffic Map
Weather
Video
Photo Galleries
Hawaii News
Kokua Line
Crave
Politics
Sports
Obituaries
Business
Editorial
Features
Calendar
Travel
Columnists
Live Well
State Legals
Fun & Games
Homes
Cars
Jobs
Classifieds
Star Channels
Dining Out
Hawaii Renovation
Store
Email Newsletters
Archives
The Big Q
Corrections
Special Sections
Partner Content
Partner Videos
Search
About Us
Contact Us
Web Push Notifications
Mobile Apps
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
 Close
Subscribe
Log In
Activate Digital Account
Forgot Password
Email Newsletters
Print Replica
Customer Service
FAQs
HAWAII NEWS


Fast-moving blaze in Lahaina kills 36 and leaves devastation in its wake
By Dan Nakaso  Aug. 10, 2023      
Honolulu Star-Advertiser logo
Unlimited access to premium stories for as low as $12.95 /mo.

VIDEO BY RICHARD OLSTEIN/AIR MAUI HELICOPTERS

This video from aboard a helicopter shows the devastation from wildfires on Maui.


VIDEO COURTESY GOV. JOSH GREEN

Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke, who is serving as acting governor in Gov. Josh Green's absence, held a press conference Wednesday night to discuss the ongoing state and federal response to the raging wildfires on Maui and Hawaii island.

MATTHEW THAYER / THE MAUI NEWS VIA AP
                                Above, the hall of the historic Waiola Church in Lahaina and nearby Lahaina Hongwanji Mission were engulfed in flames along Wainee Street on Tuesday.
MATTHEW THAYER / THE MAUI NEWS VIA AP

Above, the hall of the historic Waiola Church in Lahaina and nearby Lahaina Hongwanji Mission were engulfed in flames along Wainee Street on Tuesday.

COURTESY U.S. CIVIL AIR PATROL
                                Above, the widespread damage in Lahaina was captured Wednesday by U.S. Civil Air Patrol.
COURTESY U.S. CIVIL AIR PATROL

Above, the widespread damage in Lahaina was captured Wednesday by U.S. Civil Air Patrol.

Next
1 / 4
Related Photo Gallery: Wildfire sweeps through Lahaina, forces evacuations
Devastating wildfires on Maui were still raging Wednesday night, making the assessment of damage, deaths and casualties difficult as thousands of residents lost homes, visitors were asked to leave the island, and historic Lahaina — the Hawaiian kingdom’s original seat of power and home to King Kamehameha’s palace — lay in ruins.

Officials fear the death toll and casualties will rise, but preliminary reports were that the fire that tore through Maui claimed at least 36 lives, wounded nearly 30, forced some at Lahaina Harbor into the ocean to escape flames, and destroyed or damaged at least 271 structures on the Valley Isle. At least three wildfires on Maui and three on Hawaii island were fueled by winds generated by Hurricane Dora as it passed to the south of Hawaii on Tuesday.

Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. confirmed last night that the death toll stood at 36.

RELATED COVERAGE

>> Biden issues presidential disaster declaration for Maui, Big Island after destructive fires

>> Lahaina’s historic and cultural treasures go up in smoke


>> Disaster could be lasting setback for economy

The Hawaii island fires were contained, all roads reopened and shelters closed by Wednesday night. But fires continued to burn out of control in Lahaina, Kula and Kihei under high winds, dry foliage and low humidity. As many as 30 power lines were blown over and may have contributed to the blazes.

“These fires are absolutely devastating, and we will not know the full extent of the damage for a while. In the meantime, the highest priority is the safety of the people,” said U.S. Sen. Brian Schatz.

A federal team was on the ground in Lahaina to assist with search and rescue efforts. With nearly 100 Maui firefighters working around the clock to battle the wildfires in Lahaina, Upcountry and Pulehu, Maui Fire Department officials said they requested the assistance of 20 firefighters from Honolulu and an incident management team.

Four helicopters were deployed for water drops in Lahaina, while two Chinook and four Windward Aviation helicopters conducted drops on the three active fires. Three helicopters from the U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Navy conducted search and rescue operations along the West Maui coastline.

Maui knows wildfires, but nothing like the ones that left much of Lahaina destroyed. Without power to 12,400 customers and with no cellular or landline phone service, government officials were communicating primarily via radio.

Documentation of the devastation will continue along with search and rescue efforts.

The true scope of the damage and human toll may not be known for weeks, possibly months, said Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke, who organized a news conference with state and county officials as acting governor Wednesday in Gov. Josh Green’s absence.

Luke asked people not to fly into Maui and ordered all nonessential travelers, including tourists, to leave as soon as possible. On Oahu, the Hawai‘i Convention Center was quickly converted into an evacuation area for visitors and Maui residents who could not find other lodging. About a dozen evacuees had arrived by about 8:30 p.m.

Luke called West Maui “not a safe place to be … shelters are overrun.”

“We are just struck by the devastation on Maui,” she said.

The Coast Guard said it made 12 “ocean rescues” following reports that people were jumping into the water to avoid the flames, but demurred when asked by the Honolulu Star-Advertiser whether crews reported any fatalities.

Maui Memorial Medical Center said since Tuesday night the hospital had been treating patients with burns, smoke inhalation and other fire-related injuries.

Six patients were flown from Maui to Oahu on Tuesday night, said Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company. Three of them had critical burns and were taken to Straub Medical Center’s burn unit, he said. The others were taken to other Honolulu hospitals.

At least 20 patients were taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center.

Kaiser Permanente reported its Lahaina clinic was destroyed by the fire. Members are being directed to its Maui Lani location.

State Department of Education officials said they were awaiting clearance to access Lahaina to conduct preliminary damage assessments of public school campuses. Unofficial aerial photos show the King Kamehameha III Elementary campus — on Front Street in Lahaina — sustained extensive fire and structural damage, they said.

All schools on Maui with the exception of Hana High and Elementary will remain closed through Friday.

The devastation to Lahaina and surrounding communities and businesses will only exacerbate the financial plight of struggling, working families and businesses that barely survived the COVID-19 pandemic.

Clay Trauernicht, an extension specialist in ecosystems and fires at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, said the Maui fires represent a new era in island firefighting that increasingly relies on aerial water drops.

But the high winds prevented helicopter flights when the fires began erupting early Tuesday morning.

Plantation workers and ranchers used to report — or even extinguish — fires before they got out of control and would direct firefighters to cane haul roads and other agricultural pathways to extinguish brush fires quickly.

“We’ve never really experienced this before,” Trauernicht said. “Typically, (firefighters are) able to get between wildfires and communities. Here we’re seeing the worst possible outcome over issues we’ve been worrying about for years. When fire moves from home to home, it’s a whole ’nother challenge.”

The economic fallout will touch workers and businesses in many ways and also will take time to figure out, said Sherry Menor-McNamara, CEO and president of the Chamber of Commerce of Hawaii.

But, certainly, she said, “it will have a devastating impact. The fabric of the area won’t be the same. Building and recovery will be difficult, that will have a trickle-down domino effect.”

“Coming out of COVID, unfortunately we’re going to see some businesses close,” Menor-McNamara said. “Businesses do business with other businesses. It will have a long-term effect at a time when many neighbor island businesses are still recovering.”

As of Wednesday, Maui County had ordered 13 evacuations, closed 16 roads and opened five shelters.

Power also remained out to hotels and shelters, Bissen said.

Luke issued a flurry of three emergency proclamations related to the wildfires Wednesday morning, which followed an initial emergency proclamation she issued the day before about Hurricane Dora and wildfires on Maui and Hawaii island on behalf of Green, who was out of town.

The chamber was working on launching a business relief fund to help Maui, while other offers of aid — both large and small — began pouring in.

Within hours, the Maui Strong Fund at the Hawai‘i Community Foundation was at $1 million from people and organizations stepping up to help.

The three state senators who represent Maui County have set up donation sites at two locations around the state Capitol from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. today and again on Friday on the mauka side of the Capitol at the Father Damien statue on Beretania Street; and at the Capitol parking lot off of Miller Street. They will accept toiletries, diapers, formula, toys, clothing, bedding, household goods and nonperishable food, but no bottled water.

Upcountry Maui resident Anthony Nelson, who specializes in restoration, organized his young family to pull together donations to deliver to War Memorial Complex, where donations were being accepted. The Nelson donations consisted of “anything we could spare, nonperishable food, bedding, kids toys, stuff we can donate to help somebody’s life feel a little more normal.”

And then Nelson’s 6-year-old daughter — his oldest of two daughters — emptied her piggy bank and said, “they need it more than me.”

The War Memorial Gym, Hannibal Tavares Community Center, Maui High School and Maui Preparatory Academy serve as shelters.

A few dozen evacuees from Maui checked into Oahu’s shelter at the Hawai‘i Convention Center on Wednesday night.

Nelson warned of health dangers for people whose homes were spared but likely will be covered in soot.

“When smoke particulate mixes with lungs or moisture it turns to acid,” he said. “… So wear a respirator.”

But mostly Nelson grieved.

“When Hawaii’s burning,” he said, “my heart goes with it.”

Dean Rickard, co-coach of the Lahainaluna High School football team, told the Star-Advertiser in a text that, “Many of our Coaches & Players lost their homes and not sure when we’ll be able to return to Lahaina or when power will be restored … we all doing as best as can … this fire was devastating and way worst than the 2018 fire … Lahaina Town and whole neighborhoods went up in flames and is unrecognizable and looks more like a war zone … I had to evacuate my home and not sure if it’s still standing … my Parents, brother Todd, son’s, and daughter’s houses were destroyed … now we all just waiting to see extent of the damages and hoping my house still standing … we going need one rally point for the Ohana to stay strong for the long road ahead … it’s a fricken nightmare but just fortunate the man above kept our Ohana together and that we all made it out safely. Mahalo for your thoughts and prayers!!”

James Tokioka, director of the state Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism, which is working with the visitor industry to relocate Maui tourists, comes from Kauai and suggested that the Maui fires may have been worse than Hurricane Iniki, which devastated the Garden Isle in 1992.

“You could see the hurricane coming,” Tokioka said. “None of us were prepared for this.”

Jerry Gibson, president of the Hawai‘i Hotel Alliance, said in a statement that, “We’re trying to keep the lines of communication open to Lahaina and other parts of West Maui and the greater island.”

Chip Rogers, president and CEO of the American Hotel and Lodging Association, said in a statement that, “Given the state is discouraging nonessential travel into Maui, we encourage guests with pending travel to rebook at a future date.”

The two organizations are working to free up rooms on Oahu through DBEDT.

State Sen. Lynn DeCoite (D, East and Upcountry Maui-Molokai-Lanai) told the Star-Advertiser that the fires have left residents in shock.

“There’s a lot of traumatization going on,” she said. “I can’t put a finger on how devastating this is.”

Hawaiian Electric asked for patience as it works to get power restored to West Maui and Upcountry customers — and to “plan for extended outages” while crews remain concerned about safety and getting emergency responders through to fight the ever-shifting fires.

“Our focus right now is the safety of our communities, customers and workforce, and prioritizing power restoration to areas that our crews can safely access,” Hawaiian Electric spokesperson Shayna Decker said. “We continue to actively monitor the fluid wildfire situation and will move our restoration efforts to other areas if and as they become safe and accessible.”

Green cut his personal trip to Boston short by a week and was scheduled to arrive at midnight and be on Maui today, Luke said.

Pledges of support and messages of sympathy poured in, including from President Joe Biden, who said he has ordered “all available federal assets on the islands to help with response.”

In a statement released by the White House, Biden said, “Jill and I send our deepest condolences to the families of those who lost loved ones in the wildfires in Maui, and our prayers are with those who have seen their homes, businesses, and communities destroyed. We are grateful to the brave firefighters and first responders who continue to run toward danger, putting themselves in harm’s way to save lives.”

Biden’s predecessor, native son Barack Obama, wrote in a social media post that:

“It’s tough to see some of the images coming out of Hawai‘i — a place that’s so special to so many of us. Michelle and I are thinking of everyone who has lost a loved one, or whose life has been turned upside down.”

Kahului Council member Tasha Kama said, “I am devastated at the loss of lives, and the tremendous property losses and even chapters of our community’s history that we are currently witnessing.”

 Comments (32)
 PREVIOUS STORY
On the Move: Cabanit, Tuppil, Li and Frampton
NEXT STORY 
Lahaina residents escape flames and smoke, but trauma lingers
Click here to view ongoing news coverage of the Maui wildfires. Sign up for our free e-newsletter to get the latest news delivered to your inbox. Download the Honolulu Star-Advertiser mobile app to stay on top of breaking news coverage.

 Be the first to know
Get web push notifications from Star-Advertiser when the next breaking story happens — it's FREE! You just need a supported web browser.
Subscribe for this feature
SUBSCRIBER FAVORITES
1
Attorneys aim to make Hawaiian Electric pay for Maui disaster
2
Man, 51, allegedly killed younger brother in Moiliili, HPD says
3
As inferno grew, Lahaina’s water system collapsed
4
Gov. Green warns scores more could be found dead on Maui
5
Billions in losses projected to hit Hawaii’s economy hard
 Get the latest news by email Sign Up

UPCOMING EVENTS
Fri, Aug 18 @10:00am   Sponsored
29th Annual Made In Hawaii Festival
Hawaiʻi Convention Center
Honolulu, HI mi
Fri, Aug 18 @10:00am   Sponsored
29th Annual Made In Hawaii Festival
Hawaiʻi Convention Center
Honolulu, HI mi
Fri, Aug 18 @10:00am   Sponsored
29th Annual Made In Hawaii Festival
Hawaiʻi Convention Center
Honolulu, HI mi



                                A group of volunteers who sailed from Maalaea Bay form an assembly line on Kaanapali Beach Saturday to unload donations from a boat. Maui residents have come together to donate water, food and other essential supplies to people on the west side after a deadly fire destroyed hundreds of homes and left thousands homeless.
Aid pours into Maui as search for victims continues in Lahaina
AUDREY McAVOY / ASSOCIATED PRESS
                                Taufa Samisoni, right, and his wife Katalina speak after attending Mass at Sacred Hearts Mission Church in Kapalua Sunday. Taufa Samisoni’s uncle, aunt, cousin and cousin’s 7-year-old son died in a wildlife that burned most of the Maui town of Lahaina.
Stories of lives lost on Maui begin to emerge
COURTESY BAKER FAMILY
                                Cal’von Baker celebrated after clearing the high jump bar at the USTFA National Junior Olympics in Eugene, Ore.
Mililani state champ captures Jr. Olympic national jump title
CINDY ELLEN RUSSELL / CRUSSELL@STARADVERTISER.COM
                                Above, Tehani Kuhaulua, left, held her mother, Sallyann Gomes, at the Family Assistance Center at Kahului Community Center on Sunday.
Maui families provide DNA to help ID remains of fire victims




