11:09 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Death toll from Maui fires hits 89 and is expected to increase
From CNN's Michelle Watson  

A man walks through wildfire damage on Friday in Lahaina.
A man walks through wildfire damage on Friday in Lahaina. Rick Bowmer/AP
The death toll from the Maui wildfires is now at 89, Hawaii Governor Josh Green said in a news conference Saturday.   

"You're all wondering what we saw on the ground today. There have been more fatalities," Green said. "There are 89 fatalities, that have been measured."  
Green said the death toll is expected to increase.  


9:46 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
One runway at Kahului Airport set aside for relief supply shipments
From CNN’s Andy Rose

The Hawaii Department of Transportation (DOT) will set aside a runway at Kahului Airport, the primary airport on the island of Maui, to accommodate incoming relief supplies, official announced Saturday.

The closure will not affect commercial flights, the DOT said.

According to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Runway 5/23 is 4,980 feet long and is primarily used by private aircraft.

Kahului is the only airport in Maui equipped to receive flights directly from the US mainland, according to the state government.

Thousands of travelers have been left stranded at the airport in the aftermath of the fires. Hawaiian government officials as well as aviation officials have been discouraging travel to Maui as rescue and relief efforts continue.


8:46 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
State will not intervene in Lahaina traffic problems, Hawaii’s lieutenant governor says
From CNN’s Jessica Dean and Andy Rose

People wait in line at a checkpoint to gain access to Lahaina on Saturday, August 12, in Wailuku, Hawaii. 
People wait in line at a checkpoint to gain access to Lahaina on Saturday, August 12, in Wailuku, Hawaii. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images
Hawaii Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke says the state does not intend to intervene in traffic problems building up around Lahaina. Instead, Maui County officials will make those calls to protect public safety.

"I know individuals are very frustrated," Luke told CNN, saying she understood how people were upset by being unable to return to their homes and businesses. "There are structures that haven't been destroyed and individuals want to go back."
With the main highway going into Lahaina being opened and closed repeatedly with little warning, residents have voiced frustrations with trying to return to their homes and businesses.

Residents told CNN they were trying to bring in relief supplies, a process hampered by the limited traffic access.

Luke declined to weigh in on the debate over whether the state was sufficiently prepared for the disaster. "All the assessments and investigation will happen but really the priority is to make sure that people are fed and people have a place to stay," she said.


7:51 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Hawaii lieutenant governor says death toll is expected to rise
Hawaii Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said more deaths are likely after areas of Maui were ravaged by wildfires this week.

"The County of Maui is still doing its assessment, and our fear is that the death toll will continue to climb," she told CNN.

There have been at least 80 deaths so far, officials said on Friday.

Luke was also asked about criticism on the emergency response. The state's integrated outdoor siren warning system was not activated during the fires, according to Hawaii's Emergency Management Agency. Emergency communications with residents were largely limited to mobile phones and broadcasters at a time when most power and cell service was already cut.

"I think it's our responsibility to do an assessment and to figure out if there are certain things that could be avoided, how do we protect our citizens, how do we protect individuals who are on our islands. That's why I think the governor has called for an investigation by our attorney general's office to have a deep investigation of the Maui County initial response and also the entire response initially," she said.  

Luke said the review will look at the county, state and federal response, but the focus right now is on helping victims of the fires.

"We have a lot of work to do. We're still in the stage of locating individuals who are missing. We're in the middle of getting necessary food and water and supplies to many of the people who have lost their homes, have lost their businesses. This is a really difficult time, and all of the assessments and investigation will happen, but really the priority is to make sure that people are fed and people have a place to stay," she said.

7:57 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
It's afternoon in Maui. Here's what you should know
From CNN staff

At least 80 people have died in this week's unprecedented wildfires in Hawaii, officials said Friday.

The fire in Maui's western community of Lahaina is 85% contained, according to the county. Southeast of Lahaina, near Kihei, the Pulehu fire is 80% contained, the county said, and the blaze burning in the central Upcountry area is 50% contained.

A photographer who documented the ongoing efforts by firefighters in Maui described an intense environment: Tree roots are burning under the ground, he told CNN.

Here's what else you should know:

Back-and-forth road closures: There have been several closings and re-openings of the primary route into Lahaina, Honoapi'ilani Highway, since yesterday. This morning, there were scores of people sleeping in their cars, waiting for the highway to reopen in a line of vehicles that stretched about a mile. After it was initially reopened to traffic early Friday, officials say the road was closed “due to individuals who went over barricades and closed-off areas and entered restricted, dangerous, active investigation scenes.” A restaurant owner from Lahaina said displaced residents "don't have anywhere to go," and that the highway is the only road in and out of the historic town.

Assessing the response: Hawaii has a robust emergency siren warning system, but it sat silent during the deadly wildfires, according to state officials. Hawaii's attorney general will lead a review of the emergency response to the fires, including the lack of sirens. Some residents who spoke to CNN this week said they feel like the state didn't do enough to warn them when the flames erupted, while others have said it was an impossible situation for authorities, and that residents associate the sirens with tsunamis, not wildfires.

Recovery efforts: More than a dozen federal agencies have been sent to Hawaii to assist in the recovery efforts, including FEMA, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the National Guard. The US Army Corps of Engineers deployed teams to help manage debris, set up temporary emergency power and consult officials on the recovery, a spokesperson told CNN. Tourism authorities say they're focused on helping visitors get out of Maui, so “attention and resources” can be focused on residents. The American Red Cross has also been active on the islands.

How to help: CNN Impact Your World is raising money to support relief efforts in Maui. Click here to help, or if you're looking to donate elsewhere, here's how to know your donation is going to a legitimate charity.


7:04 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Man called family to say goodbye before saving others and himself from the Maui wildfires
From CNN’s Jillian Sykes

Mike Cicchino, his wife and rescued dog. 
Mike Cicchino, his wife and rescued dog.  Mike Cicchino
Family members of Mike Cicchino believed he was going to die after he called them to say goodbye while fighting for his life in the Maui wildfires this week. He has since been reunited with his loved ones after a night he says was “something out of a disaster movie.”

After seeing the flames on Tuesday, the Lahaina resident and his wife grabbed five dogs they were taking care of and followed traffic heading south until they were trapped by closed roads.

“People were running for their lives in all directions because nobody knew where to go,” Cicchino told CNN. “We were surrounded by fire.”

During that time, Cicchino believed they were going to die, so he called his mom for a final goodbye.

“I called to tell her I love her and to please take care of my daughter,” who was with her mother at the time, Cicchino told CNN. “The last thing I said was, ‘This is where I’m at, I’m jumping in the water, and I don’t know if I’m going to make it.’”
Moments after that call, phone service dropped, and Cicchino lost all contact for several hours.

Meanwhile, his mom, Susan Ramos, had immediately called the US Coast Guard to alert them of the fire and her son’s location. 

A view of the wildfire from near the water. 
A view of the wildfire from near the water. Mike Cicchino
While waiting on his own rescue, Cicchino was shepherding others to safety as his home of 16 years was consumed by fire. 

“I remember jumping the seawall and putting our shirts into the water to wrap around our faces and protect us from the smoke. Out in the ocean we kept getting hit by the embers, so we would hide underwater,” Cicchino said.

Nearly 60 other people were down in the water, filled with panic as they heard cars exploding nearby. 

Despite his eyes being nearly swollen shut by smoke, Cicchino left his wife in a safe space to go look for the dogs that got separated from them along the way. 

“While running down Front Street and calling out for the dogs, I heard people begging for help. I saw a couple dead bodies and checked their chests to see if they were breathing, but then had to move on to other people I could actually help,” Cicchino told CNN.
As Cicchino was moving people to safety by rocks right off the water, the Coast Guard contacted him asking for a headcount for life vests.

The Coast Guard boat couldn’t make it past a reef, leaving two members with surfboards to attempt the rescue of dozens, including children, the elderly and the injured.

The group panicked at the thought of having to go one by one and risk being separated from their loved ones. Eventually, firefighters made it to the scene, with Cicchino leading people 10 at a time to their rescue. 

On the last trip, Cicchino, his wife and two of the dogs settled in the bed of an emergency vehicle as firefighters sped off to a local triage center. 

Cicchino hugs his family after being reunited. 
Cicchino hugs his family after being reunited. Mike Cicchino
Cicchino was hooked up to oxygen and was coughing up soot from smoke inhalation.

As things calmed down, he was able to get back in touch with his mom. They cried together on the phone. “All this time my mom thought I was dead,” Cicchino said.

He was reunited with his family at a nearby shelter just a few hours later. “I ran toward my mom and broke down as she hugged me,” he said.

Cicchino said he still has friends who are missing and that so far, four of the five dogs he evacuated with have been reunited with their owners. 


5:52 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Lahaina residents frustrated by confusion over access to the highway into town
From CNN’s Mike Valerio and Andy Rose

Giulietta and Steven Daiker speak to CNN's Mike Valerio on Saturday, August 12. 
Giulietta and Steven Daiker speak to CNN's Mike Valerio on Saturday, August 12. 
Residents of the wildfire-scorched community of Lahaina on Maui were met mostly with frustration Saturday as they tried to return to their homes and businesses. The main highway going into town has been opened and closed repeatedly with little warning.

Steven and Giulietta Daiker said they were nearly up to the main checkpoint after hours of waiting when they learned they were only going to be turned around. “They couldn't have told us that three miles back, or couldn't have been on a bullhorn or on the radio?” Steven asked. “This is just pathetic."

“It's not just frustration. It feels sickening,” Giulietta added.
Authorities have cited “individuals who went over barricades and closed-off areas and entered restricted, dangerous, active investigation scenes” in closing the roadway after initially reopening it.

Residents told CNN they are not only trying to see what is left of their community but also bringing in whatever relief supplies they can — a process hampered by lack of access.

“We took a load in by boat yesterday of supplies, and now I guess we're going to do that again,” pineapple farmer Todd Domeck said Saturday morning as he waited for traffic to move. “I've got a place that I can open up with power for people to stay, but I can't get to it.”
This time-lapse shows the long line of vehicles waiting to get into Lahaina on the Honoapi’ilani Highway on Saturday:



5:24 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Photographer who documented firefighters in Maui says tree roots are burning under the ground
A professional photographer who accompanied firefighters still battling the blazes in Maui said they have been "working around the clock" to keep the fires at bay.

"These guys have been working around the clock since Tuesday, you know, fighting these fires. A lot of them haven't slept," Daniel Sullivan told CNN.

Helicopters were dropping "hundreds of gallons of water, just trying to stay on top of it," he said.

"The winds are the real enemy up there, and luckily we had a couple calm days, which was good. So that kind of helped them to get on top of the fires. But these are big forest fires. This isn't something we're used to. And when these trees are so hot, what happens is, roots burn underneath," Sullivan said.  
"Under the ground, those roots are burning, and then it can just jump up anywhere. And you have these fires that would start, and you would think there's no fire there, but when you take the temperature of the soil, it's 180, 200 degrees in the soil because those roots are burning," he said.

Firefighters continue to battle three separate fires. The Lahaina fire that has claimed the lives of at least 80 people is 85% contained, the County of Maui said on Friday. Additionally, the Pulehu fire, southeast of Lahaina near Kihei, is 80% contained, the county said in a Facebook post around 3 p.m. local time (9 p.m. ET) Friday. And the fire in Upcountry Maui, the hilly center of the island where firefighters have struggled to access flames in ravines, is now 50% contained.

Sullivan said he grew up in New Orleans and compared what he is seeing in Maui to what the Louisiana city looked like after Hurricane Katrina hit. "lt's like Katrina, you know, it's wiped out. There's nothing left," he added.


4:53 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Here's how to know your wildfire relief donation is going to a legitimate charity
From CNN's Samantha Delouya

If you’re looking to donate money to help those affected by the wildfires in Hawaii, it’s important to follow certain steps to ensure your money is going to the right place.

Here are tips to make sure your donation is going to a legitimate charity:

How to pick the organization: Several sites help people find and support legitimate charities, including Charity Navigator, BBB Wise Giving Alliance and CharityWatch. Dig deeper into an organization’s reputation after finding a legitimate charity you’re considering supporting.

The US Federal Trade Commission suggests when conducting an online search of any charity, you should add the words “complaint,” “review,” “fraud,” or “scam” to the search terms. Doing this should bring up any bad reviews or red flags about the organization.

It’s also helpful to know if the group you’ve selected is registered as a 501(c)3, meaning it’s registered as a tax-exempt non-profit. Look up the organization in the IRS’s Tax Exempt Organization Search. If the charity is a registered 501(c)3, you may want to save a record of your contribution since it’s tax deductible.

When you feel confident about making your donation, it’s best to use a credit card or check, since those types of payments are easily traceable. After contributing to a charity, review your bank account and credit card statements to ensure you’ve only been charged the agreed-upon amount.

Tips for donating through a platform like GoFundMe: When donating through a platform like GoFundMe, ActBlue or WinRed, make sure to check whether the site is keeping some of your donation as a processing fee.

For many crowdfunding sites, your money will first go directly to the crowdfunding organizer, and not necessarily the end-recipient of the donations. So double-check that the organizer will pass along the funds to the person or cause they claim to be supporting.

Be on the lookout for scams: Don’t let anyone rush you into donating on the phone on the spot; take time to do the proper research. Never donate with a wire transfer or gift card, which is difficult to track if something goes awry. Also, if an organization insists on a donation using cryptocurrency, another hard-to-track form of payment, that should set off alarm bells. Avoid sending funds from payment apps like Venmo or Zelle. Those apps should only be used to send money to people you know, since it’s difficult to recoup funds once someone receives them.

CNN Impact Your World is raising money to support relief efforts in Maui. Click here to help.

Read more on how to help Hawaii here.


5:15 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Lahaina restaurant owner says displaced residents "don't have anywhere to go"
Laren Gartner speaks to CNN on Thursday, August 10. 
Laren Gartner speaks to CNN on Thursday, August 10.
As the road into Lahaina has been opened and then abruptly closed several times to residents, a restaurant owner from the wildfire-devastated Maui town offered her perspective on the situation.

"They don't have anywhere to go. It's really important for America to understand that Lahaina is completely isolated by one road," Laren Gartner, who owns the now-destroyed Cheeseburger in Paradise restaurant, told CNN. 
"You can't go from Santa Monica to L.A. ... to Orange County. You can't go anywhere," said Gartner, comparing the situation to traveling around California, where she is currently staying. "You're stuck. You're on one road; even if you turn around, you're not going anywhere."
"Everyone is in such chaos about what to do. They have this huge amount of people who have no place to live. Everything they own, their money, their credit cards, everything is gone. They're relying on (getting) in line. It's a horrifying situation," she said.

Gartner said the lack of reliable communication is compounding a difficult situation. While about 90% of her employees have checked in, she can only get them on the phone "for seconds."


3:18 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Local nonprofit uses its eco-tour boats to provide much-needed aid to Maui residents
From CNN's Paul P. Murphy

People unload supplies from the Ocean Spirit onto Kahekili Beach Park, just north of Lahaina. 
People unload supplies from the Ocean Spirit onto Kahekili Beach Park, just north of Lahaina. Paul Murphy/CNN
On a typical day, the Ocean Spirit ship would be operating eco-tours across Maui as part of the nonprofit Pacific Whale Foundation’s marine conservation and education program. The vessel survived the Maui wildfires earlier this week that leveled entire communities and killed at least 80 people because it was anchored off Lahaina and not in the harbor (another foundation ship, moored in the harbor, was not so lucky).

Maui is in desperate need of help, and the foundation has stepped in to fill the gaps and find the people that aid isn’t getting to quickly enough. On Wednesday, another foundation ship helped transport fuel to first responders in Lahaina.

Dozens of employees from across the organization kept the momentum going and created a grassroots network that’s identifying needy individuals and families, and finding out what supplies they need.

Now, donations from residents and supplies purchased with cash donations stream into the foundation’s classroom in Maalaea, which staff has converted to a makeshift warehouse. When it’s “go time,” dozens of staff mobilize and begin moving the supplies in trucks and on dollies down to the marine just outside, and then get into formation: a long bucket brigade that spans from a truck, across a boat, to the Ocean Spirit.

Inside the Pacific Whale Foundation classroom being used to store donations as they come in. 
Inside the Pacific Whale Foundation classroom being used to store donations as they come in. Paul Murphy/CNN
It only takes the team about 30 minutes to load the hundreds of pounds of batteries, flashlights, water, food, household items, clothes, baby diapers and gas canisters. A late arrival of propane tanks is met with big praise – no power in western Maui means it’s the only way to cook.

The trip to the dropoff point – Kahekili Beach Park, just north of Lahaina – takes just over an hour. But as soon as the catamaran’s ladder drops on the beach, there’s another bucket brigade forming. Beachgoers that had been swimming and walking the beach even joined in.

As quickly as it was offloaded, the supplies were loaded into a number of trucks and cars sitting on the fifth-hole fairway of the Royal Ka’anapali golf course. A majority of it is picked up by the people that had requested it, but the remaining supplies were transported to distribution centers across western Maui.

Read more here.


4:00 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Residents once again stopped from taking main highway into Lahaina
From CNN’s Cole Higgins and Rebekah Riess

A Maui police officer turns away people who are trying to get to Lahaina at a checkpoint Saturday, August 12. 
A Maui police officer turns away people who are trying to get to Lahaina at a checkpoint Saturday, August 12. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images
Maui police appear to have once again stopped residents from taking the main roadway, Honoapi'ilani Highway, into the devastated town of Lahaina.

While utility trucks, supply vehicles and buses carrying tourists out of the area have been allowed to continue traveling on the road, residents are now being told to use a longer, alternate route — or to wait for the main roadway to reopen.

Some residents slept in a mile-long line of cars overnight, hoping to enter by morning. But police are telling drivers that traffic is jammed on the main road, and that conditions are too dangerous.

There have now been several closings and re-openings of the highway since yesterday. After it was initially reopened to traffic early Friday, officials say the road was closed “due to individuals who went over barricades and closed-off areas and entered restricted, dangerous, active investigation scenes.”

Police seemed to allow more drivers to pass through a checkpoint around 6 a.m. local time (noon ET) Saturday, but that was short-lived, as CNN then observed officers turning more vehicles away.

CNN's Mike Valerio contributed to this report.


1:54 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Maui resident says he didn't know a fire was approaching until a friend alerted him
From CNN’s Cole Higgins, Mike Valerio, and Rebekah Riess

A Maui resident who lives about 10 miles north of the hard-hit town of Lahaina tells CNN he "didn’t even know there was a fire" until one of his friends alerted him Thursday.

James Hartsell said he had no expectation that warning sirens would sound, as he says those sirens are meant for tsunamis.

“We're all conditioned and trained — those go off, the tsunami is coming, you’ve got get to high ground. You don't really think of a firestorm,” he told CNN.

He added that there are often brush fires in the area and that the fire department “does a very good job” protecting properties. “This one was just weird,” he said.

“This one erupted, you know, in an area that — it was just in a bad spot,” Hartsell said. “It was kind of the perfect storm, and the winds were really bad. So I mean, you have no power, you have high winds, you have the resources spread out, and now you have a fire in, like, the perfect spot. And it was unfortunately a recipe for disaster.”
Hartsell said he didn't think "there's anything anybody could have really done about it."

Some background: According to the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency, Maui’s warning sirens were not activated when the Lahaina fire began on Tuesday. But other layers of the emergency warning system were triggered, including mobile phone alerts and messages on televisions and radio stations, spokesperson Adam Weintraub told CNN on Friday.

A CNN review of state and local emergency planning documents has shown the state was ill-prepared for the disaster. Hawaii officials underestimated the deadly threat of wildfires, even as they acknowledged a lack of necessary resources to mitigate them, according to state records.

Hawaii's governor told CNN on Friday that he has ordered a comprehensive review of the state's actions in the hours after several wildfires broke out across the state. He also emphasized factors mentioned by Hartsell, saying wind suddenly reignited the West Maui fire after it appeared to die down — and at a time that resources were stretched thin by other blazes on the islands.


1:18 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Here’s where wildfires have burned in Hawaii over the past week
A woman digs through rubble of a home destroyed by a wildfire in Lahaina, Hawaii, on Friday, August 11.
A woman digs through rubble of a home destroyed by a wildfire in Lahaina, Hawaii, on Friday, August 11. Rick Bowmer/AP
Unprecedented wildfires have scorched the islands of Hawaii over the past week, claiming the lives of at least 80 people, officials said late Friday.

The worst of the fires came on the island of Maui, particularly in the western community of Lahaina. The blaze near the historic town is now 85% contained, the County of Maui said on Friday.

Southeast of Lahaina, near Kihei, the Pulehu fire is 80% contained, the county said in a Facebook post Friday night.

Meanwhile, the fire in Upcountry Maui is now 50% contained. The area is located in the hilly center of the island where firefighters have struggled to access flames in ravines.

This map shows where other fires have burned on the islands in recent days:



12:37 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Tourism officials focus on getting visitors off Maui so resources can go to residents
From CNN’s Rebekah Riess

Tourism authorities are focused on helping visitors get out of Maui, alleviating the pressure on residents and traffic, so that “attention and resources” can be focused on the island's recovery, Hawaii Tourism Authority spokesperson Ilihia Gionson said Saturday.

Gionson, who is a native Hawaiian, said residents will draw strength from the deep history of Lahaina — a former capital of the Hawaiian Kingdom — and “the very powerful spirits of Maui.”

“It’s really in the families and in the hearts of the Kama'aina, the residents of those places, that those kinds of stories, those kinds of histories live,” he told CNN. “So our hearts, our prayers, all of our Aloha is with those families who have lost loved ones, who have lost their homes, who have lost businesses, livelihoods, lifestyles — it's just devastating.”

1:22 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Police appear to reopen main highway into Lahaina
From CNN’s Rebekah Riess

Maui police appear to be reopening the road in and out of Lahaina, with cars moving through a checkpoint for the first time since police closed the only route to the West Maui town Friday afternoon.

Residents will now be able to travel the Honoapi'ilani Highway, an approximately 20-minute drive, into the epicenter of the Lahaina fire crisis — and observe firsthand the damage done to homes and businesses there.

This morning, there were scores of people sleeping in their cars, waiting for the highway to reopen in a line of vehicles that stretched about a mile.

Hawaiian officials had told CNN they aimed to reopen the route by 6 a.m. local time (noon ET). Cars began moving through the checkpoint around that time.

Authorities have said drivers will need to prove residency or a hotel reservation to access the area, and some parts of the historic town remain off-limits for safety reasons.

CNN affiliate Hawaii News Now reported residents disregarded access rules within Lahaina on Friday, leading law enforcement to abruptly shut down entry.

CNN's Mike Valerio contributed to this report.


6:06 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
US Army engineers are helping manage debris and setting up emergency power in Hawaii
From CNN's Haley Britzky

The US Army Corps of Engineers deployed teams to help manage debris, set up temporary emergency power and consult officials on the recovery from Hawaii's devastating wildfires, a spokesperson told CNN.

“Our personnel are assisting with planning and assessments,” said Raini Brunson, the Corps of Engineers spokesperson.
The deployment includes experts on relevant topics in public works and engineering, Brunson said.

The soldiers' mission has been coordinated through the Federal Emergency Management Agency, according to the official.

It’s unclear where the teams have specifically been sent.

Federal relief efforts: More than a dozen federal agencies have been sent to Hawaii to assist in the recovery efforts, including FEMA, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the National Guard. 

FEMA administrator Deanne Criswell and other administration officials are in Maui Saturday to meet with Hawaii Gov. Josh Green and assess the damage, according to an agency news release.

The American Red Cross has also taken an active role in the disaster response.

CNN's Priscilla Alvarez contributed to this report.


10:59 a.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Police have shut down access to the Lahaina area again, after briefly allowing residents to return
From CNN’s Mike Valerio and Cole Higgins 

After allowing Lahaina residents to briefly return to parts of the devastated town Friday, Maui Police abruptly shut down the main road into Lahaina just before 4 p.m. local time (10 p.m. ET). 

The Maui Police Department said the closure was "effective immediately," according to a Facebook post. 

CNN affiliate Hawaii News Now reported residents disregarded access rules within Lahaina, leading law enforcement to shut down entry. Local media reports showed the roadway congested, as officers redirected vehicles. 

Law enforcement began allowing members of the public past road blocks to check on property only hours earlier.

Maui police officers told CNN that the road, Honoapi'ilani Highway, may reopen to the public once again around 6 a.m. local time (noon ET) Saturday.

This morning, there are scores of people sleeping in their cars, waiting for the highway to reopen in a line of vehicles that stretches about a mile.

1:18 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Here’s where wildfires have burned in Hawaii over the past week
A woman digs through rubble of a home destroyed by a wildfire in Lahaina, Hawaii, on Friday, August 11.
A woman digs through rubble of a home destroyed by a wildfire in Lahaina, Hawaii, on Friday, August 11. Rick Bowmer/AP
Unprecedented wildfires have scorched the islands of Hawaii over the past week, claiming the lives of at least 80 people, officials said late Friday.

The worst of the fires came on the island of Maui, particularly in the western community of Lahaina. The blaze near the historic town is now 85% contained, the County of Maui said on Friday.

Southeast of Lahaina, near Kihei, the Pulehu fire is 80% contained, the county said in a Facebook post Friday night.

Meanwhile, the fire in Upcountry Maui is now 50% contained. The area is located in the hilly center of the island where firefighters have struggled to access flames in ravines.

This map shows where other fires have burned on the islands in recent days:



12:37 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Tourism officials focus on getting visitors off Maui so resources can go to residents
From CNN’s Rebekah Riess

Tourism authorities are focused on helping visitors get out of Maui, alleviating the pressure on residents and traffic, so that “attention and resources” can be focused on the island's recovery, Hawaii Tourism Authority spokesperson Ilihia Gionson said Saturday.

Gionson, who is a native Hawaiian, said residents will draw strength from the deep history of Lahaina — a former capital of the Hawaiian Kingdom — and “the very powerful spirits of Maui.”

“It’s really in the families and in the hearts of the Kama'aina, the residents of those places, that those kinds of stories, those kinds of histories live,” he told CNN. “So our hearts, our prayers, all of our Aloha is with those families who have lost loved ones, who have lost their homes, who have lost businesses, livelihoods, lifestyles — it's just devastating.”

1:22 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Police appear to reopen main highway into Lahaina
From CNN’s Rebekah Riess

Maui police appear to be reopening the road in and out of Lahaina, with cars moving through a checkpoint for the first time since police closed the only route to the West Maui town Friday afternoon.

Residents will now be able to travel the Honoapi'ilani Highway, an approximately 20-minute drive, into the epicenter of the Lahaina fire crisis — and observe firsthand the damage done to homes and businesses there.

This morning, there were scores of people sleeping in their cars, waiting for the highway to reopen in a line of vehicles that stretched about a mile.

Hawaiian officials had told CNN they aimed to reopen the route by 6 a.m. local time (noon ET). Cars began moving through the checkpoint around that time.

Authorities have said drivers will need to prove residency or a hotel reservation to access the area, and some parts of the historic town remain off-limits for safety reasons.

CNN affiliate Hawaii News Now reported residents disregarded access rules within Lahaina on Friday, leading law enforcement to abruptly shut down entry.

CNN's Mike Valerio contributed to this report.


6:06 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
US Army engineers are helping manage debris and setting up emergency power in Hawaii
From CNN's Haley Britzky

The US Army Corps of Engineers deployed teams to help manage debris, set up temporary emergency power and consult officials on the recovery from Hawaii's devastating wildfires, a spokesperson told CNN.

“Our personnel are assisting with planning and assessments,” said Raini Brunson, the Corps of Engineers spokesperson.
The deployment includes experts on relevant topics in public works and engineering, Brunson said.

The soldiers' mission has been coordinated through the Federal Emergency Management Agency, according to the official.

It’s unclear where the teams have specifically been sent.

Federal relief efforts: More than a dozen federal agencies have been sent to Hawaii to assist in the recovery efforts, including FEMA, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the National Guard. 

FEMA administrator Deanne Criswell and other administration officials are in Maui Saturday to meet with Hawaii Gov. Josh Green and assess the damage, according to an agency news release.

The American Red Cross has also taken an active role in the disaster response.

We have more than 150 staff on the ground, including Urban Search & Rescue teams and a canine search team, with more in route to assist local efforts to help survivors of the devastating #MauiFires.

More efforts: https://t.co/2b9mAIFLm1 pic.twitter.com/Kwol1xtREX

— FEMA (@fema) August 12, 2023
CNN's Priscilla Alvarez contributed to this report.


10:59 a.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Police have shut down access to the Lahaina area again, after briefly allowing residents to return
From CNN’s Mike Valerio and Cole Higgins 

After allowing Lahaina residents to briefly return to parts of the devastated town Friday, Maui Police abruptly shut down the main road into Lahaina just before 4 p.m. local time (10 p.m. ET). 

The Maui Police Department said the closure was "effective immediately," according to a Facebook post. 

CNN affiliate Hawaii News Now reported residents disregarded access rules within Lahaina, leading law enforcement to shut down entry. Local media reports showed the roadway congested, as officers redirected vehicles. 

Law enforcement began allowing members of the public past road blocks to check on property only hours earlier.

Maui police officers told CNN that the road, Honoapi'ilani Highway, may reopen to the public once again around 6 a.m. local time (noon ET) Saturday.

This morning, there are scores of people sleeping in their cars, waiting for the highway to reopen in a line of vehicles that stretches about a mile.


7:36 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
More than 2,000 structures have been damaged or destroyed in the Lahaina area, officials say
From CNN’s Gloria Pazmino, Rebekah Riess and Mike Valerio

At least 2,207 structures have been damaged or destroyed by the Lahaina fire in western Maui, according to an updated damage assessment from the Pacific Disaster Center and FEMA.

An estimated 86% of buildings exposed to the fire were classified as residential, the update said. The report also said 2,170 acres had burned in the blaze as of Friday.

Maui County shared a graphic on Facebook this morning that listed the estimated cost of rebuilding from the fire at $5.52 billion, citing FEMA and the Pacific Disaster Center as the source.

But a FEMA spokesperson issued a statement later Saturday saying the $5.5 billion figure "is not a dollar amount from FEMA and does not reflect any damage estimations from our agency." 

"FEMA has not done any estimates of costs, we are still in active response and initial recovery phases, and it is too early to do so. Once all life saving and life sustaining needs are met, we will begin to assess the damage and formulate preliminary estimates," the statement reads.

CNN has reached out to the Pacific Disaster Center for clarification.

This post has been updated with comments from a FEMA spokesperson regarding a reported damage estimate for the Lahaina fire.


1:14 p.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Deadly Maui fire is 85% contained, county says
From CNN's Michelle Watson 

This photo provided by the Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources shows burnt areas of grasslands in the Upcountry region on the Maui island, Hawaii, on Friday.
This photo provided by the Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources shows burnt areas of grasslands in the Upcountry region on the Maui island, Hawaii, on Friday. Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources/AP
The Lahaina fire that has claimed the lives of at least 80 people is 85% contained, the County of Maui said on Friday.

Additionally, the Pulehu fire, southeast of Lahaina near Kihei, is 80% contained, the county said in a Facebook post around 3 p.m. local time (9 p.m. ET). The fire in Upcountry Maui, the hilly center of the island where firefighters have struggled to access flames in ravines, is now 50% contained.

"Firefighters continue battling flare-ups in all three fires," the post read.

"Federal Emergency Management Agency Urban Search and Rescue Team, with expertise in human remains, are being deployed to Maui from Arizona and Nevada. Five dogs are being utilized," it added.


10:16 a.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Maui sent out alerts but did not activate warning sirens when Lahaina fire began, state says
From CNN's Ray Sanchez

Maui’s warning sirens were not activated when the Lahaina fire began on Tuesday, records show, according to the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency.

But other layers of the emergency warning system were triggered, including mobile phone alerts and messages on televisions and radio stations, spokesperson Adam Weintraub told CNN on Friday.

"Our review of the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency logs indicates that there was no activation of the sirens on Maui during the wildfire incident,” he said in an interview. “Nobody at the state and nobody at the county attempted to activate those sirens based on our records."  
The statewide public safety warning system has about 400 sirens to alert residents to tsunamis and other natural disasters, he said. 

On Maui, the second largest island in the Hawaiian archipelago, there are 80 sirens, according to the county website. 

"It was largely a function of how fast the flames were moving,” he said of the failure to trigger the vaunted all-hazard emergency siren system. “They were trying to coordinate response on the ground, and they had already issued these other alert systems." 


10:16 a.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Hawaii officials had been warned about insufficient wildfire planning and funds, records show
From CNN's Isabelle Chapman, Scott Bronstein, Casey Tolan and Allison Gordon

A wildfire burns in Kihei, Hawaii, on August 9, 2023.
A wildfire burns in Kihei, Hawaii, on August 9, 2023. Ty O'Neil/AP
When Hawaii officials released a report last year ranking the natural disasters most likely to threaten state residents, tsunamis, earthquakes and volcanic hazards featured prominently. Near the bottom of a color-coded chart, the state emergency management agency described the risk of wildfires to human life with a single word: "low."

A year and a half later, the catastrophic fires that engulfed Maui and the historic town of Lahaina this week have already become the state's deadliest natural disaster in more than six decades, with a fatality count of 55 that is expected to rise. 

Hawaii officials underestimated the deadly threat of wildfires even as they acknowledged a lack of necessary resources to mitigate them, according to a CNN review of state and local emergency planning documents that show how ill-prepared the state was for the disaster. 

One Maui County report on wildfire prevention from 2021 stated that while the number of acres consumed by wildfires had spiked, funds to prevent and mitigate them were "inadequate." The report also stated that the county fire department's strategic plan included "nothing about what can and should be done to prevent fires" — in what it called a "significant oversight."

The report recommended a thorough risk assessment of fire hazards, but it's not clear whether officials heeded the recommendation. 

Other reports over the past five years show authorities knew the risk of fires was increasing and could be exacerbated by hurricane-force winds — like the Lahaina blaze was.

"Fires occurring as a result of and concurrent with another major threat or disaster, such as a hurricane, are particularly challenging," one report stated, with first responders and firefighters stretched to capacity. During this week's fires, Hurricane Dora was hundreds of miles south of Maui, but the storm's winds still fanned flames on the island.
The state emergency management agency's public resources webpage also lays out clear, bullet-point recommendations of what residents should do in the event of a hurricane, tsunami, flash flood or earthquake. At the bottom of the page, the agency includes two short paragraphs about wildfires — with no similar advice on ways to stay safe.

Hawaii and Maui County officials didn't immediately respond to requests for comment Friday as disaster response efforts continued.

Read the full investigation


10:16 a.m. ET, August 12, 2023
Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sánchez pledge $100 million to Maui disaster relief
From CNN’s Andy Rose

Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and his fiancée are pledging $100 million to recovery efforts in Maui, Lauren Sánchez announced on her Instagram account Friday.

“Jeff and I are heartbroken by what’s happening in Maui,” Sánchez wrote. “We are thinking of all the families that have lost so much and a community that has been left devastated."
She added: "Jeff and I are creating a Maui Fund and are dedicating $100 million to help Maui get back on its feet now and over the coming years as the continuing needs reveal themselves."
Bezos and Sánchez have been together since 2019 and were engaged earlier this year, a source told CNN in May.

Bezos is the executive chair of the Amazon board of directors and owns the Washington Post.



×
Search Maui Now

Aloha, Guest!
Login | Register
News Topics
Front Page
Maui News
Business
Food & Dining
Arts & Entertainment
Real Estate
Crime Statistics
Local Sports
Weather & Surf
Weather Forecast
Surf Report
Lifestyle & Culture
Maui Arts & Entertainment
Food and Dining
Obituaries
On the Menu
Real Estate
Visitors’ Guide
Opinion
Maui Discussion
Reader Survey
Events Calendar
Upcoming Maui Events
Map of Events
Post an Event
Job Listings
Maui Jobs
Recent Job Listings
Job Alerts
Post a Job
Special Sections
IMUA Discovery Garden
Medical Minute
Video
Latest Maui Videos
About Maui Now
Newsletter
Contact Information
Get the App
Advertising
Meet the Team
Choose Your Island:
Copyright © 2023 Pacific Media Group
All Rights Reserved
Privacy Policy | About Our Ads

Maui Now

Maui News
Maui wildfire updates for Aug. 12: 93 confirmed deaths, 2 Identified; 150 FEMA personnel on Maui
August 12, 2023 · 2:26 PM GMT+1
* Updated August 13, 2023 · 3:15 PM
6.8k
Shares
twitter sharing buttonsharethis sharing buttonlinkedin sharing buttonfacebook sharing button
Listen to this Article
5 minutes
AAA

PC: Hawaiʻi DLNR
Wildfire updates (for Saturday Aug. 12): HERE.

Firefighters continue working to extinguish flare-ups and contain fires in Lahaina, Pūlehu/Kīhei  and Upcountry Maui. As of today:

There are 93 deaths, Identified 2
150 FEMA personnel on the ground now, 90 of them assisting with search and rescue
New FEMA maps show 2,207 structures damaged or destroyed in Lahaina. This is a stark difference from the 270 structures initially reported by county authorities.
Estimated cost to rebuild in Lahaina is projected at $5.52 billion; in Kula is $434 million 
3 active fires: Lahaina; Pūlehu/Kīhei; and Kula
Unsafe water advisory in affected wildfire areas of Lahaina and Upper Kula.
Nearly 9,000 customers remain offline in Lahaina (Power was restored to about 3,700 customers in Nāpili, Puʻukoliʻi, and Māhinahina, where essential public services, such as water pumps, and first responder facilities are located.; 70 without power in Upcountry
Mass visitor/resident evacuations out of West Maui continue
A total of 1,418 people are at six shelters: at War Memorial Gymnasium, Hannibal Tavares Community Center, Maui High School, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Maui Lani, Kings Cathedral Church and Grace Bible Church
Disaster assistance: If you are impacted by the fires, visit DisasterAssistance.gov, call 800-621-FEMA (3362) or download the FEMA App for more information.
Below are updates, which are posted as they become available.

Lahaina, Pūlehu and Upcountry Maui fires
Update: 10:05 p.m., Aug. 12, 2023

Firefighting crews are continuing to extinguish flare-ups in the Lahaina and Upcountry Maui fires. In the Upcountry Maui fire, three structures in Olinda and 16 structures in Kula were destroyed. The Pūlehu/Kīhei fire was declared 100 percent contained Saturday. Containment indicates what percentage of the fire perimeter has been enclosed by a control line and reflects opportunities for the fire to spread beyond its original border into new areas.

ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW AD
A 1-acre fire reported Friday evening in Kāʻanapali above Puʻukoliʻi was extinguished.

The number of confirmed fatalities increased to 93, with two of them identified. Police have not released their names, pending notification of their families.

The American Red Cross emergency evacuation shelter at Maui High School in Kahului is being moved Sunday to the South Maui Gymnasium in Kīhei. All activities are canceled at Kīhei Regional Park due to the gym being used as an emergency evacuation shelter as of 9 a.m. Sunday.

Kaiser Permanente outpatient health and medical clinics will operate from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. at Lahaina Gateway Center, Nāpili Park and Lahaina Comprehensive Health Center at the Lahaina Civic Center.

Two donated Wi-Fi trucks are stationed at Nāpili Park and Honokowai Park to provide Wi-Fi service and the ability to charge cellphones. The service is free to the public.

ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW AD
About 180 people staying in emergency evacuation centers obtained reissued driverʻs licenses and state identification cards Saturday morning at the county Division of Motor Vehicles and Licensing. Fees were waived. County employees volunteered to open the division, and Department of Transportation buses took evacuees to the center.

Lahaina Gateway Center will be open from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Sunday for distribution of food, water and other supplies. A potable water tanker is at the location.

Nāpili Plaza is also distributing food, water and other supplies.

Donations of non-perishable food, bottled water and hygiene products are being accepted at a War Memorial Complex field off Kanaloa Avenue from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sunday. West Maui residents have requested coolers, slippers, underwear, flashlights and generators.

With power being restored in some areas of West Maui, Ohana Fuels/ Minit Stop on Keawe Street in Lahaina and Kahana Gateway Shell are open for gasoline.

ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW AD
A county Department of Water Supply precautionary unsafe water advisory remains in effect for Upper Kula and Lahaina areas affected by the wildfires. The advisory that residents should not drink and not boil water is issued out of an abundance of caution pending testing, and water tankers are in place at affected locations. In Lahaina, the advisory does not apply to Kaniau Road and areas north of the road including Villages of Leialiʻi. In Kula, water tankers are available at Crater Road, Copp Road, Kula Fire Station, Rice Park, Kula Community Center and Keokea. Visit mauicounty.gov/water for maps of affected Upcountry areas.


Gov. Green returns to West Maui for further assessment. (8.12.23) PC: Office of the Governor
Governor Green, Federal officials provide updates on Maui damage
Update: 9:20 p.m., Aug. 12, 2023

Click here to view the press conference video.
Lahaina fire is deadliest in US since Cloquet fire in 1918, and death toll likely to rise

Governor Josh Green, M.D., Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Deanne Criswell and other federal officials joined together on Maui to deliver a united briefing about the Maui wildfires’ impacts and round-the-clock efforts for Maui residents and visitors.

Officials summarized an assessment of affected neighborhoods and business districts earlier in the day, as well as detailing federal and state relief made available by this week’s presidential disaster declaration, requested by Governor Green.

“We ask for a lot of understanding about traveling into the zone where the fire occurred,” said Governor Green. “The reason is the health consequences, the heavy metals … the recommendations are to avoid the structures because they could still fall on people and we’ve lost too much life already.”

“I think what people are most interested in is housing, how we’re going to house our people,” Governor Green said. “We put together a Temporary Housing Task Force to work with our federal partners. We’ve already secured 1,000 rooms. Five hundred rooms will go to families that have been displaced because of the terrible fire, the other 500 rooms will go to support, initially …In the days that follow, we’ll have long-term rentals, those are the short-term rentals-turned-long-term. All of that is going to be covered, some by the state, some it’s going to begiven charitably and finally, FEMA will cover a great deal of the cost,” he said.

Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen spoke of the dangers to the public in the hardest-hit area of Lāhainā and the need to allow for recovery of the victims, with 89 being the latest available number.

“We’re not letting anybody into the impacted zone … It is not safe, it is a hazardous area and that’s why experts are here,” he said. “We’re not doing anybody any favors by letting them back in there quickly, just so they can get sick. That can wait. A lot of what’s happening now is, we’re asking for the respect and dignity of recovering anyone who is still there … That’s the phase we’re in.”

Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Deanne Criswell accompanied Governor Green and others on the assessment visit Saturday.

“What I always find, even during these incredibly tragic times, is the resilience of a community to come together … it always gives me hope that we will be able to rebuild,” she said. “We are going to be here every step of the way, to help this community recover. We already have 150 people on the ground and we have more coming,” she said. Administrator Criswell strongly encourages affected families to contact their insurance companies and to register for FEMA assistance via disasterassistance.gov or by calling 1-800-FEMA (3362).

Additional dignitaries at today’s news conference included U.S. Senator Mazie Hirono; U.S. Representative Jill Tokuda; U.S. Small Business Administration Administrator Isabella Casillas Guzman; U.S. Fire Administrator Dr. Lori Moore-Merrell; Joint Task Force Commander, Brigadier General Stephen F. Logan; Hawai‘i Army National Guard Col. David Hatcher, and U.S. Army Col. David Fielder.

Assets from the site assessment today can be found at the link below. Photos are courtesy Office of Hawai‘i Governor Josh Green, M.D. (Local outlets are welcome to credit Office of the Governor.)

Free shuttle for Central Maui shelters starts Sunday
Update: 8:08 p.m., Aug. 12, 2023

A free Central Maui shuttle will be available starting Sunday, Aug. 13, 2023, for people who are staying at any of the county-listed Central Maui shelters, the County of Maui Department of Transportation announced today. Shelters include War Memorial Gymnasium in Wailuku, King’s Cathedral in Kahului and Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Kahului. The on-demand shuttle will be available for same-day rides to most shopping destinations and medical facilities in Central Maui. The shuttle will be available 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. (last pickup). Riders will be required to call Roberts Hawaii for reservations at 808-871-4838. Mobility devices, such as wheelchairs, can be accommodated. Luggage and bags will be limited to what can be carried.


Maui West Maui wildfire response. (August 2023) PC: Maui Electric Company
Power restored to more areas of West Maui; Hotels plan to house residents displaced by fire
Update: 7:30 p.m., Aug. 12, 2023:

Hawaiian Electric restored additional circuits today in West Maui, picking up customers along the Kā‘anapali Coast, including many of the hotels, resorts and condominiums that had been without electricity since Tuesday.

Since Friday, service has been restored to about 5,500 customers in West Maui. Once power is fully restored to the resort area, state and Maui County officials will work with participating hotels and resorts to provide rooms for displaced residents who have been in shelters since the fire.

Crews on Saturday also completed installation of a mobile substation at the Lahainaluna substation. The mobile unit is expected to help restore power Sunday to customers in the neighboring subdivision, which includes homes, three schools and county water facilities.

Hawaiian Electric restoration efforts continued with more than 300 Hawaiian Electric employees and contractors working to safely bring power back to communities in West Maui and Upcountry. Employees from O‘ahu, Hawai‘i Island, Moloka‘i and Lāna‘i are also providing additional response resources, including staffing, expertise, materials and equipment to expedite and respond to the restoration efforts on Maui.

Everyone is reminded to exercise caution as certain areas are brought back online and to stay away from downed power lines – at least 30 feet or more (at least two car lengths). If you see a downed power line, assume it is energized and dangerous. Report downed lines immediately by calling Hawaiian Electric’s Maui Trouble Line at 808-871-7777.

Updates are also available at hawaiianelectric.com/windstormresponse


Hawai’i Gov. Josh Green details the recovery efforts of the Lahaina fire during a press conference on Aug. 12, 2023. (Tiffany DeMasters/Maui Now)
Afternoon Wildfire Update:
Update: 4:25 p.m., Aug. 12, 2023:

The number of confirmed fatalities remains at 89, according to Gov. Green.

A fire reported Friday night in Kaʻanapali above Puʻukoliʻi remained contained Saturday after burning about 1 acre. Firefighters were working to fully extinguish the fire.

Two donated Wi-Fi trucks are stationed at Nāpili Park and Honokowai Park to provide Wi-Fi service and the ability to charge cellphones. The service is free to the public.

About 180 people staying in emergency evacuation centers obtained reissued driverʻs licenses and state identification cards Saturday morning at the county Division of Motor Vehicles and Licensing. Fees were waived. County employees volunteered to open the division, and Department of Transportation buses took evacuees to the center.

Lahaina Gateway Center will be open from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Sunday for distribution of food, water and other supplies. A potable water tanker is at the location.

With power being restored in some areas of West Maui, Minit Stop on Keawe Street in Lahaina and Kahana Gateway Shell are open for gasoline.

A county Department of Water Supply precautionary unsafe water advisory remains in effect for Upper Kula and Lahaina areas affected by the wildfires. The advisory is issued out of an abundance of caution pending testing, and water tankers are in place at affected locations. In Lahaina, the advisory does not apply to Kaniau Road and areas north of the road including Villages of Leialiʻi. In Kula, water tankers are available at Crater Road, Copp Road, Kula Fire Station, Rice Park, Kula Community Center and Keokea. Visit mauicounty.gov/water for maps of affected Upcountry areas.

Maui-Lānaʻi Passenger Ferry Resumes for community assistance
Update: 4:57 p.m, Aug. 12, 2032

Today, the Maui-Lānaʻi Passenger Ferry, operated by Expeditions, resumed interisland service. 

The DLNR Division of Boating and Ocean Recreation worked expeditiously to clear the ferry dock of fire ash and debris at the Māʻalaea Small Boat Harbor to accommodate the ferry. 

Typically, it operates between the Lāhainā Small Boat Harbor on Maui and the Manele Small Boat Harbor on Lānaʻi but numerous burned and sunken vessels and debris in the water at Lāhainā Small Boat Harbor led to the US Coast Guard establishing a temporary emergency Safety Zone at the harbor and in surrounding waters with no vessels allowed without USCG approval. 

The ferry service is a critical mode of transport, providing access to medical care for Lānaʻi
residents, and access between the islands for first responders.

Expeditions has told DOBOR leadership that the company expects to offer ferry services on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays to provide transportation for service providers and first responders. 

“To the extent the demand is higher from the first responder groups or the community, additional routes will be added,” the company wrote in an e-mail to DOBOR. The Hawai‘i Public Utilities Commission was informed of the reinstatement of the Māʻalaea to Manele route and acknowledged the change on Friday. 

DOBOR Administrator Ed Underwood said, “We had nearly 100 vessels moored in the Lahaina Small Boat Harbor before the fire and now only seven are above water. The US Coast Guard, which currently has jurisdiction over the water, has informed us that it will take some time to restore the ability of ferries to dock there. Fortunately, the new ferry dock at Lāhainā is one of the few structures that appears to have withstood the flames.” 

DLNR First Deputy Laura Kaakua noted, “The Maui-Lānaʻi Passenger Ferry is a lifeline between the islands and that’s especially true at this time. We’re pleased, that working together, service has been restored and we look forward to the day when the ferry returns to Lahaina.” 


This image shows part of the closed area in West Maui under investigation. PC: Donovan Fayd.
Access Update for West Maui
Update: 2:04 p.m., Aug. 12, 2023

Maui police say that in the wake of the wildfire disaster in Lahaina, the department “has been working tirelessly to coordinate a thorough and respectful body recovery operation within the affected area.”

“Our primary objective is to ensure the proper handling and identification of deceased individuals while maintaining the safety of the community and public safety personnel on the scene,” police said.

Access to West Maui is open for area residents who are being allowed to enter the area through Waiheʻe and leave through Māʻalaea.

Residents must show proof of residency through a driver’s license or state identification card with a West Maui address.

Travel in West Maui on Honoapiʻilani Highway through Māʻalaea is limited to emergency operations including transporting supplies and personnel.  Access into West Maui through Māʻalaea requires official authorization from emergency operations officials.

Honoapiʻilani Highway is open for vehicles leaving West Maui through Māʻalaea.

The public is required to stay out of the area, where search-and-rescue operations are underway, as there are loved ones whose families have not been notified yet and possible hazards, including toxic particles from smoldering areas.

If your home or former home is in the affected area, you will not be allowed to do so until the affected area has been declared safe by Hazmat teams after the recovery has been completed.

“Once we have secured the affected area, we will open that area for travel.  We are asking for the public’s assistance to please be patient and not rush to return,” police said.

“In the face of adversity, our community has always demonstrated resilience and unity. We understand that this is a trying time for everyone, and thank you for your cooperation and understanding as we work through this challenging period together,” according to police.

Police say anyone entering the disaster area, in violation of the second emergency proclamation that Mayor Bissen signed Aug. 8, 2023. The violation is considered a misdemeanor crime punishable by up to one year in jail and a $2,000 fine.


Governor Josh Green is back on Maui today for damage assessment. He will hold a press conference at 4:30 p.m. The conference will be streamed live on our Maui Now Facebook page. (8.12.23) PC: Tiffany DeMasters

Governor Josh Green is back on Maui today for damage assessment. He will hold a press conference at 4:30 p.m. The conference will be streamed live on our Maui Now Facebook page. (8.12.23) PC: Tiffany DeMasters


Cargo drop via air. PC: Bob McIntyre (8.11.23)
Short runway closes at Kahului Airport to support cargo operations; This will NOT impact commercial flights
Update: 1:36 p.m., Aug. 12, 2023

The Hawaii Department of Transportation (HDOT) will be shutting down Kahului Airport (OGG) Runway 523 to accommodate cargo operations, assisting in airlifting goods and necessities to Maui. 523 is a short runway that will not affect any commercial flights, but will have an impact on the general aviation community. HDOT will prioritize commercial flights.


MECO Power Outage Updates for Saturday, Aug. 12. PC: Bob McIntyre (8.12.23)
MECO Power Outage Updates for Saturday, Aug. 12
Update: 1:05 p.m., Aug. 12, 2023

Hawaiian Electric restoration efforts continue today with more than 300 Hawaiian Electric employees and contractors working to safely bring power back to communities in West Maui and Upcountry. Employees from O‘ahu, Hawai‘i Island, Moloka‘i and Lāna‘i are also providing additional response resources, including staffing, expertise, materials and equipment to expedite and respond to the restoration efforts on Maui.

Today, crews are setting up a mobile substation at the damaged Lahainaluna substation to help restore power to customers in the neighboring subdivision, which includes homes, three schools and county water facilities. Crews today are also working to replace some of the estimated 40 poles and other equipment damaged by the fire and high wind. Additional damage assessments by helicopter in the air and on the ground are being conducted and extensive restoration repairs are continuing in areas that are safe and accessible. 

On Friday, Hawaiian Electric restored power to one of three main transmission lines serving West Maui and restored service to about 3,700 customers in Nāpili, Puʻukoliʻi, and Māhinahina, where essential public services, such as water pumps, and first responder facilities are located. The number of customers restored is still relatively small and the aim is for additional circuits to be brought online this weekend.

That represents just a small portion of the need with nearly 9,000 still without power in West Maui

Because there has been a tremendous amount of damage to the system at the distribution and substation level – these are the parts of the system that deliver electricity to communities and neighborhood – the system is still fragile and the restoration must be done carefully to, above all, ensure the safety of the public and our workers. 

After the power comes back on, there may be intermittent outages. All Maui customers are asked to be mindful of their use of electricity and conserve by limiting non-essential uses. In Upcountry Maui, 74 customers remain without power, and crews are working to repair equipment, though they are being challenged by a number of burned trees and branches.

Hawaiian Electric President and Chief Executive Officer Shelee Kimura has been on site on Maui to support the response efforts and to ensure that the company’s full resources across the five islands the company serves are responding to support the needs of the Maui community. Kimura and the company continue to coordinate closely with state, county and emergency response officials in the restoration planning and community response efforts.

“Hundreds of Hawaiian Electric employees from across the islands are on the front lines on Maui, working with many others to safely restore electricity, assess damage, remove debris and support our families, neighbors and employees,” Kimura said. “At times of crisis, Hawai‘i always comes together and Hawaiian Electric will be here to work with our communities to recover and rebuild, no matter how long it takes.”

The HEI Charitable Foundation, which is administered by Hawaiian Electric’s parent company, has donated $100,000 to assist recovery efforts — $50,000 to Maui United Way and $50,000 to the Hawaiʻi Community Foundation Maui Strong Fund. American Savings Bank, whose parent company is also HEI, has donated $100,000, including to the American Red Cross.

As a reminder, customers affected in West Maui and parts of Upcountry have received notifications that bills and payment collections are currently on hold. If you have questions, contact customer service at 808-871-9777. 

If using a portable generator, carefully follow instructions in the manufacturer’s manual, for your safety and the safety of Hawaiian Electric employees working to restore electricity to the distribution system. Don’t plug household electrical outlets to the generator. Instead, plug your equipment or appliance directly into the generator. Make sure the wattage requirements of the appliance don’t exceed the capacity of your generator or extension cord. Also, be sure to provide adequate ventilation for exhaust and cooling. And store reserve fuel in a safe place away from the generator or any other equipment that might ignite the fuel; use containers designed for fuel storage.

Everyone is reminded to exercise caution as certain areas are brought back online and to stay away from downed power lines – at least 30 feet or more (at least two car lengths). If you see a downed power line, assume it is energized and dangerous. Report downed lines immediately by calling Hawaiian Electric’s Maui Trouble Line at 808-871-7777.

Updates are also available at hawaiianelectric.com/windstormresponse

Access open through Waiheʻe for West Maui residents only
Update: 11:08 a.m., Aug. 12, 2023

West Maui residents can once again access the West Maui area. The announcement was made at around 11 a.m. by County officials and Maui Police. The current entry point for West Maui residents is through Waiheʻe, and the exit is through Māʻalaea.

Residents must show proof of residency through a driver’s license or state identification card with a West Maui address.

Travel into West Maui on Honoapi’ilani Highway through Māʻalaea is limited to emergency operations including transporting supplies and personnel. Access into West Maui through Māʻalaea requires official authorization from emergency operations officials.

Honoapiilani Highway is open for vehicles leaving West Maui through Māʻalaea.

The Lahaina wildfire disaster area, including the Maui Police Department checkpoint at the intersection of Honoapiʻilani Highway and the start of Lahaina Bypass Road, Lahaina town and the MPD checkpoint near Wahikuli Wayside Park, is barricaded. People are required to stay out of the area, where search-and-rescue operations are underway, and there are possible hazards including toxic particles from smoldering areas.

Anyone entering the disaster area, in violation of the second emergency proclamation signed Aug. 8, 2023, by Mayor Richard Bissen, is subject to a misdemeanor crime punishable by up to one year in jail and a $2,000 fine.

Update: 10:51 a.m., Aug. 12, 2023


MPD reminder: the Lahaina Civic Center is NOT open to the public
Update: 10:50 a.m., Aug. 12, 2023

The Maui Police Department would like to clarify that the Lahaina Civic Center is NOT open to the public.

Food and supply distribution is available today at the Lahaina Gateway Center and the Nāpili Plaza.


Maui Police Department advisory
Update: 10:25 a.m., Aug. 12, 2023

Access to Lahaina via Maalaea remains closed – authorized public safety traffic only.

WEST maui residents and essential resort staff may access Lahaina through Kahakuloa. The public is permitted to exit Lahaina through Maalaea. ONLY Kahakuloa village residents may exit Lahaina through Kahakuloa.

NO ONE will be allowed to enter residences within the containment zone.

Violators will be removed from the area and may face arrest.

DLNR Wildfire Updates
Update: 9:56 a.m., Aug. 12, 2023

The Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources did flyovers today, of all four fires spread this week by winds from a hurricane passing south of the state. 

Olinda fire (Upcountry Maui):  The security camera images show personnel from the Maui Bird Conservation Center attempting to fight the fire.  Lance DeSilva with the DLNR Division of Forestry and Wildlife-Maui Branch was on hand for a recap.

Kula fire (Upcountry Maui):  Numerous homes in this area were destroyed and Maui County firefighters were still on the scene this morning.  

Pulehu wildfire (Central Maui):  This fire scorched grasslands above Kīhei and burned mostly on Haleakalā Ranch lands. A few small “smokers” were visible from the air on Friday.

Lahaina fire (West Maui): Firefighting efforts continue today.

All fires are still active.

Maui Wildfires Overnight Update
Update: 2:05 a.m., Aug. 12, 2023

Firefighters continue working to extinguish flare-ups and contain fires in Lahaina, Pūlehu/Kīhei  and Upcountry Maui.

The number of fatalities is now confirmed at 80.

New damage assessment maps from multiple wildfires in Maui County were released by the Pacific Disaster Center and the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

According to PDC, as of Aug. 11, 2023, damage assessments related to the Lahaina Fire resulted in an estimated total of 2,719 structures exposed; 2,207 structures damaged or destroyed; and 2,170 acres burned. 86% of buildings exposed to the fire were classified as residential. 

The new information far exceeds the 270 structures which had been reported as damaged or destroyed in initial estimates. The estimated cost to rebuild in Lahaina is projected at $5.52 billion. 

In Kula, 544 structures were exposed, 678 acres burned, and the estimated cost to rebuild is $434 million, according to the maps.

A Kāʻanapali fire reported above Puʻukoliʻi at 6:10 p.m. Friday was reported to be 100 percent contained before 8:30 p.m. The fire is in the area where a county fueling station was positioned Friday to distribute an estimated 3,000 gallons of gas and 500 gallons of diesel for an estimated 400 vehicles that were lined up before the operation began. No fuel will be distributed Saturday.

Police are restricting access into West Maui through both Māʻalaea and Waiheʻe. Honoapiʻilani Highway is open for vehicles leaving Lahaina. The burned historic Lahaina town area remains barricaded, with people warned to stay out of the area due to hazards including toxic particles from smoldering areas. Wearing a mask and gloves is advised.

Volunteers are distributing food, water and other supplies at Nāpili Plaza from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. today.

Food, water, toiletries, canned goods, diapers, baby formula, clothing and pet food will be distributed from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday at Lahaina Gateway Center.

Donations of non-perishable food, bottled water and hygiene items will be accepted from 8 a.m. to 6 pm. Saturday at the War Memorial Complex field in Wailuku. No clothing is being accepted.

A Family Assistance Center for family members who are looking for information about loved ones who are unaccounted for will be open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Saturday and Sunday at Kahului Community Center.

The county Department of Transportation is coordinating buses to transport people staying at emergency shelters to the county Department of Motor Vehicles and Licensing, which will be open for special hours from 8 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Saturday so shelter occupants can have their driver’s licenses and state identification cards reissued. Fees will be waived. County are volunteering to work to open the department.

On Friday, a total of 1,418 people were emergency evacuation shelters at War Memorial Gymnasium, Hannibal Tavares Community Center, Maui High School, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Maui Lani, Kings Cathedral Church and Grace Bible Church.

For organizations and individuals wishing to offer services or donations to aid in the county rescue and relief efforts, an online tool is available. Information can be provided at https://tinyurl.com/mauireliefsurvey to be used to help organize and deploy resources.

Limited cellphone service is now available in West Maui. West Maui residents are encouraged to limit phone calls and video streaming services in order to free up bandwidth with telecommunication providers. Cellphone users are reminded to text, rather than call so everyone can share the limited resources.


PDC: Exposure Lahaina Fire – Maui County, Hawaiʻi, Aug. 11, 23. RESOURCES / Pacific Disaster Center and the Federal Emergency Management Agency

PDC: Exposure Kula Fire, Maui County, Hawaiʻi, Aug. 11, 2023. RESOURCES / Pacific Disaster Center and the Federal Emergency Management Agency

Pacific Disaster Center and FEMA release Fire Damage Assessment Maps
1:57 a.m., Aug. 12, 2023

The Pacific Disaster Center and the Federal Emergency Management Agency released damage assessment maps from multiple wildfires in Maui County. 

According to PDC, as of Aug. 11, 2023, damage assessments related to the Lahaina Fire resulted in an estimated total of 2,719 structures exposed; 2,207 structures damaged or destroyed; and 2,170 acres burned. 86% of buildings exposed to the fire were classified as residential. 

The new information far exceeds the the 270 structures which had been reported as damaged or destroyed in initial estimates. 

The estimated cost to rebuild in Lahaina is projected at $5.52 billion. 

In Kula, 544 structures were exposed, 678 acres burned, and the estimated cost to rebuild is $434 million, according to the maps.

MEO collecting funds to put those displaced by fires into housing
Update: 6:24 a.m., Aug. 12, 2023

Maui Economic Opportunity has started the MEO-Maui Fires Fund to help place those who lost their homes in Maui fires into safe and secure housing as soon as possible. Donations will be used to pay for rents. MEO and others have put out a call for available units in the community and have been assembling lists. MEO is currently designing a housing program and should have it up and running soon with the scope based on donations received. The 58-year-old nonprofit has familiarity providing rental assistance for Maui County residents in need.  MEO operates the county’s Rental Assistance Program and ran federally funded rental and mortgage assistance programs during the recent pandemic. For more information, monitor MEO’s website, www.meoinc.org, and social media sites.

FEMA, Federal Family Unite to Support Hawaiʻi Wildfire Response, Recovery
Update: 6:41 a.m., Aug. 12, 2023

More than a dozen federal agencies and departments are mobilized to assist state, county, nonprofit and private sector partners to help the people of Hawaiʻi with recent devastating wildfires. Personnel from FEMA, federal agencies and voluntary organizations are arriving daily to Hawaiʻi to support active response and initial recovery efforts. 

FEMA has deployed more than 150 FEMA personnel, including search and rescue teams, with more on the way. Today, Disaster Survivor Assistance teams are in Maui to help residents register for assistance and address any critical needs in the affected neighborhoods. Full story HERE.

Hawai‘i Ag & Culinary Alliance starts Kokua Fund for Maui displaced hospitality workers
Update: 6:44 a.m., Aug. 12, 2023

Hawai‘i Ag & Culinary Alliance will reinstate the Kokua Restaurant and Hospitality Fund for Maui to provide immediate assistance to the dedicated restaurant, bar and hospitality workers who have been displaced by the recent catastrophic wildfires that have devastated West Maui communities from Lāhainā to Kapalua, a cherished home of the renowned Hawai’i Food & Wine Festival.

The Kokua Restaurant and Hospitality Fund for Maui will channel resources directly to support culinary, restaurant and tourism workers in West Maui who have been impacted most severely.
The organization is also working with World Central Kitchen and their partners on the ground, Chef Hui, to feed communities affected by the Maui wildfires. Full report HERE.

Maui JobsView All Jobs 

Maui Brewing Co. Kāʻanapali Restaurant
FOH & BOH - All Positions!
West Maui · 1 month ago

Walker Industries, Ltd.
Precast Concrete Laborer
Central Maui · 1 hour ago

Island Honda
Lube Technician - Class D
Central Maui · 1 month ago
Looking for locally based talent?Post a Job Listing
Sponsored Content

Subscribe to our Newsletter
Stay in-the-know with daily or weeklyheadlines delivered straight to your inbox.
E-Mail Address
Related Articles
Maui wildfire updates for Aug. 10: Death toll rises…
August 10, 2023
Maui Director and Deputy Director of Personnel…
May 31, 2023
MPD Crisis Intervention Team gets 23 newly trained…
June 27, 2022
22 trained personnel join MPD's Crisis Intervention Team
March 4, 2023
FEMA map shows 2,207 structures damaged or destroyed…
August 12, 2023
First of 32 generators arrive at a FEMA staging area…
August 14, 2023
Comments
This comments section is a public community forum for the purpose of free expression. Although Maui Now encourages respectful communication only, some content may be considered offensive. Please view at your own discretion.
View Comments (65)

View All Events:
 List  Map
UPCOMING FEATURED EVENTS:

TODAY · 2:30 pm - 3:30 pm
Lei Po'o Making at The Shops at Wailea

Every Wednesday · 4:30 pm - 6:00 pm
WAILEA WEDNESDAYS

Fri, Aug 18, 2023 · 4:00 pm - 7:00 pm
Ke Kula Kaiapuni o Maui - Ocean Vodka Fundraiser


SKIP TO CONTENT

SHARE & SAVE —



Search NBC News

PROFILE

 SIGN IN
CREATE YOUR FREE PROFILE
SECTIONS

U.S. NEWS
POLITICS
WORLD
LOCAL
BUSINESS
HEALTH
INVESTIGATIONS
CULTURE & TRENDS
SCIENCE
SPORTS
TECH & MEDIA
VIDEO FEATURES
PHOTOS
WEATHER
NBC SELECT
DECISION 2024
NBC ASIAN AMERICA
NBC BLK
NBC LATINO
NBC OUT
TV

TODAY
NIGHTLY NEWS
MSNBC
MEET THE PRESS
DATELINE
FEATURED

NBC NEWS NOW
BETTER
NIGHTLY FILMS
STAY TUNED
SPECIAL FEATURES
NEWSLETTERS
PODCASTS
LISTEN NOW
MORE FROM NBC

CNBC
NBC.COM
NBCU ACADEMY
NBC LEARN
PEACOCK
NEXT STEPS FOR VETS
PARENT TOOLKIT
NBC NEWS SITE MAP
HELP
FOLLOW NBC NEWS

EVENT ENDED
Last updated Aug. 13, 2023, 9:23 AM BST
Death toll rises to 89 in Hawaii, making it the deadliest wildfire in modern U.S. history 
Officials say the number of dead will likely increase as crews search the wreckage that wiped out the tourist town of Lahaina. NBC News is on location covering the devastation.

00:01 /03:46

TAP TO UNMUTE

SAVE
Updated Aug. 13, 2023, 9:23 AM BST
By NBC News
Coverage on this live blog has ended. Please follow our updates here.

The death toll in the Maui wildfires rose to 89, officials said Saturday, with Hawaii Gov. Josh Green cautioning that it was likely to continue to grow.

The revised number of fatalities has put the fire, which devastated the town of Lahaina, as the deadliest wildfire in modern U.S. history, surpassing the 2018 Camp Fire in California that killed 85.

As people wait and hope for news about their loved ones and homes, the community has stepped up efforts to distribute supplies to those who lost everything.

In Maui, dozens of volunteers gathered near Maalaea Harbor to collect water, gas and other supplies, some calling out a chant, rallying together those gathered to help, as they loaded vehicles.

“Maui has Maui right now, and now Oahu is here supporting Maui,” community member Anthony Jensen told NBC News. “We’re doing this as one big family, one big ohana, and that’s our mission right now is just to support the people who really need it.”

Thousands of gallons of water and ready-to-eat meals will be needed each day for displaced residents, in addition to shelter for 4,500 people, FEMA and the Pacific Disaster Center said.

The fire damaged or destroyed an estimated 2,207 structures in Lahaina, and the majority of buildings impacted were residential, according to damage assessments.

What to know about the wildfires
The death toll rose to 89 Saturday, Hawaii Gov. Josh Green announced in an afternoon news conference.
A total of 2,200 buildings and other structures have been damaged or destroyed as of Friday, while 2,170 acres have been burned.
Six fires are burning in Maui and the Big Island, but officials said the Lahaina fire is now 85% contained. Many of the town's historic landmarks are lost.
Green said the fires are likely to be the largest natural disaster in the state’s history.
NBC News' Miguel Almaguer, Dana Griffin and Steve Patterson are reporting from Maui.
2d ago / 9:23 AM BST

Humanitarian crisis unfolds as Maui fires leave thousands seeking housing
SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 8:24 AM BST
U.S. fire administrator: collective fires top modern 10 worst

Dennis Romero

The devastation resulting from a complex of fires on Maui that started Tuesday represents the deadliest U.S. fire in recent years, U.S. Fire Administrator Lori Moore-Merrell said.

"This fire now has become the deadliest in the last 10 years," she announced at a Saturday news conference convened by Gov. Josh Green.

The Maui complex of fires also represent the deadliest U.S. fire in the last 100 years. California's Camp Fire in 2018, which killed 85, previously held that title.

Officials waned that the death troll would continue to climb as search and recovery teams planned to cover more ground in upcoming days.

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 6:17 AM BST

Volunteers in Hawaii chant as they load supplies for those impacted by wildfires
SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 5:52 AM BST
Governor says winds may have made fires unstoppable

Dennis Romero

Gov. Josh Green said Saturday that strong winds in Hawaii midweek may have made the fires on Maui unstoppable.

As questions grow regarding state and local officials' initial responses to the nascent blazes Tuesday, the governor pointed to a culprit hard to tame in any circumstance: Trade winds boosted by a high pressure system.

"The largest force in play that night were 80 mph winds," Green said during a news conference on the fires and their aftermath. "Fortunately, now those winds have passed."

The National Weather Service published a summary of peak wind gusts in Hawaii for Monday through Wednesday. The strongest wind recorded in Maui during that span was a 67 mph gust on Wednesday. The most powerful wind on the Big Island was a gust of 82 mph recorded Tuesday.

Green suggested that the winds' sudden and insurmountable force would have whipped hungry flames through West Maui regardless of the human reaction.

"Having seen that storm," Green said, "we have doubts that much could have been done with a fast-moving fire like that."


SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 4:38 AM BST
No IDs yet for the dead, and police chief urges patience

Dennis Romero

Chief John Pelletier of the Maui Police Department on Saturday braced the public for more devastation in West Maui because the search, recovery, and identification process remains in its earliest stage.

He said during Saturday's news conference no identities for the deceased have been completed in a process that can include rapid DNA testing, dental record comparisons, and informing family members.

"Every one of these 89 are John and Jane Does," the chief said.

The death toll will increase, Pelletier said, and it's unclear where it will end up.

"None of us really knows the size of it yet," Pelletier said. "You want it fast, or you want it right? We’re going to do it right."

He said only 3% of an area of Maui that is under search and recovery plans has been covered. "We're going as fast as we can," Pelletier said.

The chief noted that the heat and humidity of Maui were most likely slowing down search and rescue dogs deployed for the mission. "We can only go as fast as the animal can go," he said.

Pelletier cited island cultural principles and said search, recovery and identification would be done in the spirit of aloha and respect.

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 3:50 AM BST
Hawaii death toll passes Paradise Camp Fire toll
With 89 confirmed deaths in the Maui wildfires, which were swept by extreme winds into the town of Lahaina, the disaster officially becomes deadlier than California’s Camp Fire in 2018, which killed 85.

That notorious California fire was also swept by high winds into the small mountain communities of Concow, Paradise and Magalia in the Sierra Nevada foothills. Paradise and Concow were almost destroyed.

Until Saturday the fire had been the deadliest in American history in the last 100 years, officials have said.

The Camp Fire ignited on Nov. 8, 2018, and had “extreme rates of spread” due to dry conditions and high winds, state fire investigators have said.

It began in Pulga, and a second point of ignition was vegetation that went into power lines, the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection said in 2019. It was ignited by a fault electric transmission line and winds drove it into the communities, the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection has said. Pacific Gas & Electric later pleaded guilty to 84 manslaughter counts.

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 3:45 AM BST
Even with a record of 89 fatalities, public told to expect more

Dennis Romero

In announcing the death toll in Maui's devastating fires has risen from 80 to 89 in the span of a day, Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said on Saturday that the number would continue to rise.

"There are 89 fatalities that have been measured," he said at a news conference. "It’s going to continue to rise. We want to brace people for that."

Search and recovery crews were continuing to comb through fire-scorched communities, including historic Lahaina town in West Maui, where the worst of the fires struck swiftly after the blazes began Tuesday.


SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 3:38 AM BST
Death toll rises to 89 in Maui fires

Dennis Romero

The death toll in fires that have ravaged Maui since Tuesday increased to 89, Gov. Josh Green of Hawaii said Saturday.

Speaking at an evening news conference, Green said, "It’s going to continue to rise. We want to brace people for that."

The previous death toll of 80 confirmed deaths was announced early Saturday with the caveat that search and recovery operations were likely to turn up more remains in fire-scorched communities in West Maui.

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 3:08 AM BST

Teen brothers share story of survival after jumping into ocean with mother during Maui fires
SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 1:34 AM BST

Residents rebuilding together after Maui fires
SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 12:43 AM BST
Island has limited morgue capacity
Associated Press

As the death toll from the fires on Maui rises, it’s unclear how morgues will be able to accommodate the number of victims considering there are just one hospital and three mortuaries. The number of deaths has risen to 80, according to a statement by Maui County on Friday. Beyond the confirmed deaths in Maui, hundreds of other people remain unaccounted for.

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 11:47 PM BST
Honolulu suspends short-term vacation rental laws in response to wildfire
NBC News

In response to the anticipated need for emergency housing due to the wildfires Honolulu Mayor Rick Blangiardi directed the Department of Planning and Permitting (DPP) to suspend the short-term vacation rental 30–day minimum rental period requirement to increase the availability of temporary housing on Oʻahu.

“In the spirit of wanting to do everything possible to help with this devastating and heartbreaking tragedy, we are suspending the 30-day requirement for short-term vacation rentals to help provide housing on Oʻahu for those most in need,” said Blangiardi. “We hope that this will provide some relief for any of our displaced neighbors who are in need of a safe place to stay during these trying times.”

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 10:14 PM BST
As high as 1,000 feared missing as families beg for help finding loved ones
Minyvonne Burke

Some fear the number of people missing in the Maui fires could be as high as 1,000. One Maui resident hopes her grandmother has escaped as she struggles to reach her.

"We don’t know where she is," the woman told NBC's "Nightly News."

When asked what she would want to say to her grandmother, the woman said: "I would tell her ‘we’re looking for her. Grandma, we’re looking for you. If you can reach a phone, call us, let us know where you're at.'"

So many others are also desperate for contact with their missing loved ones.

"What goes through my mind is do I just go over there and find my dad because no one else is," another woman said, getting emotional. "If he did get evacuated, where did he get evacuated to? There's no information regarding that."

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 9:39 PM BST

Sailing company using tourist catamaran to transport supplies after wildfires
SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 9:29 PM BST
4,500 people estimated to need shelter
Leila Sackur

The Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Pacific Disaster Center estimate that 51,700 square feet of shelter will be needed for 4,500 people as a result fires on Maui.

3,560 gallons of clean water are also estimated to be required, as well as 9,000 ready to eat meals per day of displacement.

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 9:00 PM BST
Norwegian donates $50K, will redirect cruise stops to Hilo
Minyvonne Burke

Norwegian Cruise Line is donating $50,000 to help with the fires in Maui, the company said Saturday.

"We are deeply saddened to hear about the wildfires currently impacting the town of Lahaina in Maui. We have a very special relationship with the people and islands of Hawaii, as we sail to the beautiful state year-round," the cruise liner said. "It is a magical destination and one that is highly sought out by our guests for its natural beauty, culture and unparalleled experiences."

Cruises with stops in Maui will be redirected to Hilo with an additional overnight stay in Nawiliwili, Kauai for itineraries beginning Aug. 12, 2023, through the end of the month.

Norwegian has also dedicated a team aboard its ship Pride of America to begin collecting items including clothing, diapers and towels. The donations will be given to the Hawaii Community Foundation.

On Friday, Metallica's nonprofit All Within My Hands also donated $200,000 to the foundation.

"With strong ties to the Hawaiian Islands, the All Within My Hands board voted swiftly to approve a $200,000 grant for the Maui Strong Fund established through the Hawai’i Community Foundation (HCF)," a news release states.


SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 8:46 PM BST

Frustration builds as Lahaina residents try to come back after wildfires
SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 8:20 PM BST
FEMA deploys more personnel to Maui
NBC News

The Federal Emergency Management Agency announced Saturday it had deployed more than 150 personnel, including search and rescue teams, with more on the way. Today, Disaster Survivor Assistance teams are in Maui to help residents register for assistance and address any critical needs in the affected neighborhoods.

The organization said FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell was in Hawaii today with U.S. Fire Administrator Dr. Lori Moore-Merrell and Administrator Isabella Guzman of the U.S. Small Business Administration to meet with Gov. Josh Green and other officials to assess the damage.

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 8:05 PM BST
Scattered showers and up to 39 mph winds forecast in Lahaina this week

Mirna Alsharif

Scattered showers and up to 39 mph winds are forecast this week in Lahaina, according to the National Weather Service field office in Honolulu.

This weekend, isolated showers are expected along with up to 21 mph winds. The rain will continue into next week along with temperatures ranging from 63 to 73 degrees.

Wind gusts will pick up gradually throughout the week and peak on Tuesday at 39 mph, the National Weather Service said.

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 7:21 PM BST
More than 2,000 structures damaged or destroyed in Lahaina Fire
Minyvonne Burke

Thousands of structures have been damaged or destroyed in the Lahaina fire burning in Maui County, officials said.

Damage assessments show that as of Friday, 2,719 structures have been exposed with 86% classified as residential buildings, according to the Pacific Disaster Center. Just over 2,200 structures were either demolished or mangled.

More than 2,000 acres have burned in the fire, the agency said.

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 7:00 PM BST
King Charles extends condolences for Lahaina fire victims
Kate Brannelly and Mirna Alsharif

King Charles and his wife, Queen Camilla, extended their condolences to the Lahaina fire victims in a message to President Joe Biden.

"We can only begin to imagine the scale of the devastation engulfing the island, and the heartrending anguish of those whose livelihoods have been so disastrously affected," he wrote.

"However inadequate it may be," he continued, "we both wanted to send our deepest possible sympathy to the families of those who have so tragically lost their lives, and our prayers remain with all those whose loved ones are missing and whose homes have been destroyed."

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 6:40 PM BST
Police shut down access to Lahaina at Maalaea checkpoint
NBC News

Police have shut down access to Lahaina at the Maalaea checkpoint. The checkpoint was open for approximately 90 minutes before the closure as some drivers spent more than 15 hours in line waiting, since Friday, to get in to Lahaina today.

Police told NBC news there was now too much traffic backed up on the road and conditions were dangerous. Frustrated drivers said police were now directing them to travel to Lahaina via the "back way," around the northern tip of the island. Drivers said the northern route narrows to just one lane in spots.






SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 6:19 PM BST

'Amazingly devastating': FEMA official describes Maui fire's speed and environmental dangers
SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 6:00 PM BST
Lahaina resident describes losing her business
Minyvonne Burke

The aloha spirit has been a source of comfort for many locals, including Tiffany Winn, who lost her business in Lahaina.

"The nice thing about Lahaina, it's such a sense of family. Everybody watches out for each other," Winn told NBC's Dana Griffin. "And when tragedies happen, everybody bans together."

Winn lost her gift shop, one of the oldest on Front Street, in the fire. "It’s essentially gone now, just like all the other buildings around it," she said.

Winn said she was on her way to the store but was having difficulty getting there because of road closures from brush fires. She said the wind was so strong that it was knocking shingles off the houses.

As a precaution, she called her employee and told her to close the shop.

"We’re really fortunate in our timing to get out when we did," Winn said, noting that there wasn't a warning about the massive fire. "There were warnings of brush fires but nothing that would have given anybody a clue that it would have been this significant."

"I just think it happened so fast, like a firestorm," she added.

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 5:34 PM BST

Road to Lahaina opens to residents as search and rescue efforts continue
SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 5:00 PM BST
Tourists stuck in airport for hours after fire forces evacuation
Minyvonne Burke

Alex Lee and his family were visiting Maui from North Carolina when they saw "dark smoke" and then a "puff" that got bigger and bigger, he told NBC's Tom Llamas.

They decided to evacuate as a precaution and camp out at the Maui airport until they could catch a flight home. "It's been rough, a rough couple of days," Lee said, sitting next to a makeshift bed on the floor.

Others vacating in Hawaii have been forced to do the same. Two families who were vacationing together had been at the airport for more than 30 hours. "It's very sad," one of the women said of the destruction the fire left behind.

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 4:26 PM BST
Maui County unable to open a fuel distribution center at Pu'ukoli'i Saturday
NBC News

Maui County announced that because of the new fire at Pu’ukoli’i on the evening of Aug. 12, the county could not open a fuel distribution center at the Pu’ukoli’i site Aug. 13.

The county purchased gasoline and diesel from Maui Oil and arranged distribution via tanker at Pu’ukoli’i on Thursday and Friday for those affected by the Lahaina fires.

The Pu’ukoli’i fire was contained Friday night, but the main Lahaina fire remains active.

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 3:49 PM BST
Access to Lahaina again restricted for residents
NBC News

Maui Police shut down the main road into Lahaina just before 4 p.m. local time (10 p.m. ET). 

The Maui Police Department said the closure was “effective immediately,” according to a Facebook post. 

Law enforcement had begun to allow members of the public to bypass road blocks to check on property hours before this recent closure.

Destroyed homes and businesses  destroyed by a wildfire
Destroyed homes and businesses destroyed by a wildfire, in Lahaina. on Aug. 11, 2023.Justin Sullivan / Getty Images
SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 3:30 PM BST
Too early to estimate rebuilding costs, FEMA says
NBC News

FEMA said Saturday afternoon that it was too early to estimate rebuilding costs in the wake of the Lahaina wildfires.

"FEMA has not estimated any costs, as they are still in the active response and recovery phases," an agency spokesperson told NBC News.

Earlier in the day, Maui County had posted a graphic on Facebook citing the Pacific Disaster Center and Federal Emergency Management Agency and a figure of an estimated $5.52 billion.

FEMA noted that that figure was listed as “capital exposed,” which, FEMA said, is not a measure of rebuilding costs.


SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 2:55 PM BST
Power outages in Hawaii at 4,522

Mirna Alsharif

A total of 4,522 utility customers still do not have power in Hawaii as of Saturday morning, according to Poweroutage.us.

It's not clear how many of these customers live in Lahaina.

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 2:17 PM BST
Hawaii AG to conduct a review of decisions made during fires
Leila Sackur

Hawaii Attorney General Anne Lopez will conduct a "comprehensive review of decision-making and standing policies" leading up to, during and after the wildfires, she said in a statement Friday.

Lopez said her office “shares the grief” felt by all on Hawaii and her department was “committed to understanding the decisions that were made before and during the wildfires and to sharing with the public the results of this review.”

“As we continue to support all aspects of the ongoing relief effort, now is the time to begin this process of understanding,” she said.

Image: TOPSHOT-US-FIRE-HAWAII
People look for belongings through the ashes of their family's home, on Aug. 11, 2023.Patrick T. Fallon / AFP via Getty Images
SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 1:35 PM BST
Damage assessment maps show scale of the disaster
Henry Austin

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 12:45 PM BST
Kaanapali fire is fully contained, officials say
Leila Sackur

A fire that caused an evacuation in Kaanapali has been extinguished, Hawaii’s Department of Transport said on Twitter.

The fire erupted in an area where a county fueling station was set up to distribute about 3,000 gallons of gasoline and 500 gallons of diesel fuel for about 400 waiting vehicles, the department said.

It added that fuel would not be distributed on Saturday.

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 12:00 PM BST
Dust from 'highly toxic' burning areas could be a health hazard, officials warn
Leila Sackur

The inhalation of dust and other airborne particles unleashed by the "highly toxic" burning areas could be a health hazard, Maui County officials warned.

As a result barricades remained in place around Lahaina town, Maui County officials said in a statement, adding that police officers had been marshaling people away from unsafe areas.

SHARE THIS -
2d ago / 11:35 AM BST
Pictures show Lahaina devastation
Image: TOPSHOT-US-FIRE-HAWAII
A family looks through the ashes of their home in the aftermath of a wildfire in Lahaina on Friday.PATRICK T. FALLON / AFP - Getty Images
Image:
Buildings next to the waterfront were burned out.AP
SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 10:50 AM BST
Search and rescue teams deployed from Arizona and Nevada
Leila Sackur

Search and rescue teams with expertise in finding human remains have been deployed to Hawaii from Arizona and Nevada, Maui County said in an update Friday.

Five dogs have also been deployed to help, the update said.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 10:20 AM BST
Harmful contaminants may have entered the water system, officials warn
Leila Sackur

Harmful contaminants, including benzene and other volatile organic chemicals, may have entered the Lahaina water system, Maui County officials warned.

As a result, residents should not drink tap water or use it for cooking, even if it is boiled, the officials said in a statement adding that some water structures had been destroyed in the fire.

“Bottled water should be used for all drinking (including baby formula and juice), brushing teeth, and making ice and food preparation until further notice,” the statement said.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 9:40 AM BST
Death toll rises to 80
Leila Sackur

The number of fatalities has risen to 80, Maui County officials said in a statement late Friday, but Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen has warned that the number of dead will likely continue to rise.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 9:00 AM BST
Fire prompts evacuations in West Maui community of Kaanapali
Leila Sackur

Evacuations were ordered in the western Maui community of Kaanapali today after a fire, Maui County Police said.

Kaanapali is north of Lahaina, the town devastated by a wildfire this week, and according to U.S. census data, it has a population of around 1,100.

Maui County police said there were no restrictions for people leaving the west side of Maui. Earlier officers had restricted traffic after people went around barricades, the department said.

“Our priority is to ensure the safety of the community and first responders. We will allow entrance once it is safe to do so,” said the department.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 9:00 AM BST

Aerial footage shows Lahaina destroyed by wildfires
SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 9:00 AM BST
Scientists take stock of the plants and animals that were lost to the flames
Sakshi Venkatraman

As Hawaii continues its effort to contain wildfires across the Big Island and Maui, and a climbing death toll leaves residents shell-shocked, scientists across the United States have begun to take stock of the plants and animals that have been lost to the flames. 

Though Hawaii makes up less than 1% of U.S. land, it contains 44% of the country’s endangered and threatened plant life. While some native plants can gradually recover from wildfires of this scale, others will likely be scorched beyond regrowth, experts said. No clear data is available yet on exactly what has been lost, but scientists fear the toll is significant. 

Read the full story here.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 9:00 AM BST
A deadly — and costly — disaster
Associated Press

The deadly Maui wildfire is already projected to be the second-costliest disaster in Hawaii history, behind only Hurricane Iniki in 1992, according to calculations by Karen Clark & Company, a prominent disaster and risk modeling company.

SHARE THIS -

NEW UPDATES


Learn more aboutRefinitiv
Reuters home


My View
Following
Saved
Climate & Energy
Climate Change
Maui fires raise questions over warnings, death toll hits 80
By Marco Garcia and Mike Blake
August 12, 202310:25 PM GMT+1Updated 2 days ago



MAALAEA, Hawaii, Aug 11 (Reuters) - The death toll from the Maui wildfires rose to 80 on Friday as search teams combed through the smoldering ruins of Lahaina, and Hawaiian officials sought to determine how the inferno spread so rapidly through the historic resort town with little warning.

The fires became the deadliest natural disaster in the state's history, surpassing that of a tsunami that killed 61 people on the Big Island of Hawaii in 1960, a year after Hawaii joined the United States.

Advertisement · Scroll to continue
Officials have warned that search teams with cadaver dogs could still find more dead from the fire that torched 1,000 buildings and left thousands homeless, likely requiring many years and billions of dollars to rebuild.

"Nobody has entered any of these structures that have burned down and that's where we unfortunately anticipate that the death toll will rise significantly," U.S. Senator Brian Schatz of Hawaii told MSNBC.

Advertisement · Scroll to continue
In a late evening statement, Maui County said that the death toll had risen to 80.

The Lahaina fire that spread from the brush to town was still burning but 85% contained, the county said earlier. Two other wildfires on the island were 80% and 50% contained.

Three days after the disaster, it remained unclear whether some residents had received any warning before the fire engulfed their homes.

The island has emergency sirens intended to warn of natural disasters and other threats, but they did not appear to have sounded during the fire.

Advertisement · Scroll to continue
"I authorized a comprehensive review this morning to make sure that we know exactly what happened and when," Hawaii Governor Josh Green told CNN, referring to the warning sirens.

Officials have not offered a detailed picture of precisely what notifications were sent out, and whether they were done via text message, email or phone calls.

Green described multiple, simultaneous challenges, with telecommunications down and firefighters concentrating on other major wildfires when the greatest threat to Lahaina arose.

Advertisement · Scroll to continue
In any event, he said, "We will do all that we can to find out how to protect our people more going forward."

Maui County Fire Chief Bradford Ventura said at a press conference on Thursday that the fire's speed made it "nearly impossible" for frontline responders to communicate with the emergency management officials who would typically provide real-time evacuation orders.

"They were basically self-evacuating with fairly little notice," he said, referring to residents of the neighborhood where the fire initially struck.


[1/9]A view of damage cause by wildfires in Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii, August 11. via Office of the Governor Hawaii Josh Green



County Mayor Richard Bissen told NBC's "Today" show on Friday that he did not know whether sirens went off but said the fire moved extraordinarily quickly.

"I think this was an impossible situation," he said.

RAPID ADVANCE
The disaster began unfolding just after midnight on Tuesday when a brush fire was reported in the town of Kula, roughly 35 miles (56 km) from Lahaina. About five hours later that morning, power was knocked out in Lahaina, according to residents.

In updates posted on Facebook that morning, Maui County said the Kula fire had consumed hundreds of acres of pastureland, but that a small three-acre (1.2-hectare) brush fire that cropped up in Lahaina had been contained.

By that afternoon, however, the situation had turned more dire. At around 3:30 p.m., according to the county's updates, the Lahaina fire suddenly flared up. Some residents began evacuating while people, including hotel guests, on the town's west side were instructed to shelter in place.

In the ensuing hours, the county posted a series of evacuation orders on Facebook as the fire spread through the town.

Some witnesses said they had little advance notice, describing their terror when the blaze consumed Lahaina in what seemed to be a matter of minutes. Several people were forced to leap into the Pacific Ocean to save themselves.

The evacuation from Lahaina was complicated by its coastal location next to hills, meaning there were only two ways out, at best, said Andrew Rumbach, a specialist in climate and communities at the Urban Institute in Washington.

"This is the nightmare scenario," said Rumbach, a former urban planning professor at the University of Hawaii. "A fast-moving fire in a densely populated place with difficult communications, and not a lot of good options in terms of evacuations."

County officials began allowing Lahaina residents back to their homes on Friday, even though much of Maui's western side remained without power and water.

But the long traffic jam on the Kuihelani Highway crawled to a halt after an accident killed a pedestrian and led officials to close the highway in both directions.

Police barricaded central Lahaina as health officials warned the burnt areas were highly toxic and that inhaling dust and airborne particles was hazardous.

"Hot spots still exist and wearing a mask and gloves is advised," Maui County said in a statement.

Reuters Graphics
Reporting by Marco Garcia and Mike Blake Additional reporting by Brendan O'Brien, Jonathan Allen, Rich McKay, Andrew Hay, Daniel Trotta, Dan Whitcomb and Doyinsola Oladipo and Shivani Tanna Writing by Joseph Ax and Daniel Trotta Editing by Frank McGurty, Jonathan Oatis, Sandra Maler and Frances Kerry
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

Read Next
Businesscategory
Montana judge hands historic win to young plaintiffs in climate change case
9 min ago
View of an extension of Denbury Inc's Greencore carbon pipeline which connects to a pump station, in Montana
Businesscategory
Yellen says US economy on 'right track,' Bidenomics is driving investment, job growth
9:46 PM GMT+1
U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen speaks during a press conference at the U.S. embassy in Beijing
Worldcategory
Over 50 killed in Indian Himalayas as rain triggers landslides
9:10 PM GMT+1
Rescue workers remove the debris as they look for survivors after a landslide following torrential rain in Shimla
Businesscategory
Wildfires to cause second-largest total insured loss in Hawaii's history
8:13 PM GMT+1
Aftermath of the wildfires in Lahaina
Refinitiv Workspace
Newsletter|Every weekday.

Reuters Daily Briefing
The day's top news in your inbox. We cover the world, from front lines to boardrooms. (This includes the Reuters Weekend Briefing.)

Primary Menu
New York Post

LOG IN
RECOMMENDED
Skip to main content
NEWS
Facebook
Twitter
Flipboard
WhatsApp
Email
Copy

374
Cadaver dogs search for more bodies in fire-ravaged Maui ‘war zone’ after Hawaii disaster kills 80
By Rich Calder
August 12, 2023 10:38am  Updated
MORE ON:
MAUI WILDFIRES
Joe Biden is indifferent to the Maui fires because he’ll win Hawaii anyway
This hidden iPhone feature ‘literally saved lives’ in deadly Maui fires
Preventing fires like Maui’s, special counsel corruption and other commentary
What we know about the victims of the Maui wildfires as death toll climbs
The catastrophic Maui wildfires have become the deadliest natural disaster in Hawaii’s history, with the death toll climbing to 80 late Friday — as cadaver dogs sniffed through smoldering piles of rubble Saturday in search of more dead bodies.

The grim tally of the disaster — which started as a brush fire Tuesday night and rapidly spread — is likely to rise significantly as search and rescue operations continue, Hawaii Gov. Josh Green warned.

To aid in the frantic efforts, Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. announced that dogs trained to find bodies were brought in later Friday to scour the destruction.

A sobering assessment released Saturday by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and Pacific Disaster Center revealed that a total of 2,207 buildings and other structures have been damaged or destroyed as of Friday, while 2,170 acres have been burned.

It will cost an eye-watering $5.52 billion to rebuild, the agencies estimated.

“Nobody has entered any of these structures that have burned down and that’s where we unfortunately anticipate that the death toll will rise significantly,” US Senator Brian Schatz of Hawaii also told MSNBC Saturday.

People walk along Main Street in Lahaina. 
A slew of confrontations broke out between police and motorists as authorities briefly reopened the main road back to Lahaina for the first time since devastating wildfires tore through Maui.
AP
At one point Friday, roughly 100 people began challenging police to gain access to Lahaina via Honoapiilani Highway.
At one point Friday, roughly 100 people began challenging police to gain access to Lahaina via Honoapiilani Highway.
AFP via Getty Images
The raging infernos have already now become the deadliest natural disaster in Hawaii’s history, surpassing that of a tsunami that killed 61 people on the Big Island of Hawaii in 1960, a year after Hawaii joined the United States.

The intense blazes have turned the beach paradise into a “war zone,” Mayor Bissen solemnly declared on ABC’s “Good Morning America” Friday. 

“The closest thing I can compare it to is perhaps a war zone where maybe a bomb went off,” he said.

Haunting photos show smoldering rubble, burning homes, leafless skeletons of charred trees, and the scorched carcasses of cars.

Drivers in West Maui.
Drivers in West Maui, Hawaii wait in traffic as police open up a roadblock, allowing residents to check on their homes for the first time since a devastating wildfire destroyed most of the town of Lahaina.
AP
In the hard-hit town of Lahaina, resident Annelise Cochran told the Washington Post Saturday that “it was the closest I’ve felt to death.”

Cochran and her neighbor survived the deadly fire that ripped through Lahaina — the largest tourist destination on Maui — by spending more than five hours in the water clinging to a rock wall.

What we know about the Maui Wildfires
At least 89 people have died in the wake of the Maui wildfires that started late Tuesday.

“We’ve still got dead bodies floating on the seawall,” one Lahaina resident told Hawaii News Now. “They’ve been sitting there since last night.”

The wildfires, fanned by strong winds have burned multiple buildings, forced evacuations, and caused power outages in several communities.


The National Weather Service said Hurricane Dora was partly to blame for the strong winds that knocked out power as night came. About 13,000 residents in Maui are without power, according to reports.

People are rushing to the ocean to escape the smoke and flames fanned by Hurricane Dora.

Fire crews in Maui are battling multiple fires in the popular tourist destination of West Maui and an inland, mountainous region. Firefighters have struggled to reach some areas that were cut off by downed trees and power lines.

READ MORE

The fires have all but wiped out the historic town of 13,000 people.

Roughly 100 desperate Lahaina residents clashed with police Friday after authorities reopened — then quickly closed — the main road back to the town for the first time since the wildfires tore through the region. Officers described the confrontation as a “near-riot.” 

Follow the latest NYP coverage of the deadly Maui wildfires

Maui’s emergency sirens didn’t go off as wildfires tore through island, officials confirm as residents return to destroyed homes
‘Near-riot’ in fire-ravaged Lahaina, Maui, as 100 drivers clash with cops
Biden, Harris not going to Maui because they ‘don’t want to distract’ from relief efforts
Maui wildfire before-and-after photos show complete destruction, homes razed by flames
Footage on social media showed long lines of cars heading into the fire-ravaged Lahaina after the road was opened at noon for the first time since Tuesday. 

Police were screening motorists to ensure only Lahaina residents with identification, or visitors who could prove they were hotel guests in West Maui, could be let in.

By 6 p.m., the highway at Maalaea reopened to traffic outbound from Lahain but remained closed to vehicles headed toward West Maui.
By 6 p.m., the highway at Maalaea reopened to traffic outbound from Lahain but remained closed to vehicles headed toward West Maui.
AFP via Getty Images
Burned cars and destroyed building. 
Burned cars and destroyed buildings are pictured in the aftermath of a wildfire in Lahaina that has left at least 80 dead.
AFP via Getty Images
But by 5 p.m., authorities shut down the road in both directions, leaving motorists furious. Some drivers parked on the highway and defiantly barged into areas locked down due to hazardous conditions.

“Those caught within this zone will be escorted out and may be arrested,” Maui County officials said in a statement.

The Maui Police Department did not immediately respond to messages from The Post, including whether there were any arrests or injuries.

A fire department truck patrols a neighborhood destroyed by a wildfire in Lahaina on Friday.
A fire department truck patrols a neighborhood destroyed by a wildfire in Lahaina on Friday.
ETIENNE LAURENT/EPA-EFE/Shutterstock
A woman cradles her cat after finding him in the aftermath of a wildfire in Lahaina.
A woman cradles her cat after finding him in the aftermath of a wildfire in Lahaina.
AFP via Getty Images
Actor Jason Momoa — who was born in Honolulu — issued a stern warning to fans this week, urging them not to travel to Maui.

“Maui is not the place to have your vacation right now,” the “Aquaman” star wrote on Instagram, alongside a video montage of the devastation.

“DO NOT TRAVEL TO MAUI.”

374
What do you think? Post a comment.
Meanwhile, the state’s emergency response is facing scrutiny after officials confirmed Friday that warning sirens throughout Maui failed to activate as the wildfires ripped through the island and people had to run for their lives.

Alerts were then sent to mobile phones, television, and radio stations, however, widespread power and cellular outages limited their reach.

Gov. Green said it wasn’t clear why the sirens weren’t activated, but that the fire destroyed much of the equipment.

One Maui resident, who lives about 10 miles north of Lahaina, told CNN he “didn’t even know there was a fire” until a friend alerted him Thursday.

Attorney General Anne Lopez announced plans to conduct a comprehensive review of decision-making and policies affecting the bungled response.


×
Search Kauai Now

Aloha, Guest!
Login | Register
Front Page
Latest News
Kauai News
Hawaii News
Tourism News
Community
Lifestyle & Culture
Visitors’ Guide
Hawaiian Language
Guest Columns
Weather & Surf
Weather Forecast
Surf Report
Latest Videos
About Kauai Now
Get the App
Advertise with Us
About Our Ads
Newsletter
Contact Us
Choose Your Island:
Copyright © 2023 Pacific Media Group
All Rights Reserved
Privacy Policy | About Our Ads

Kauai Now

Hawaii News
Lāhainā Fire becomes deadliest US fire since 1918; number of deaths likely to increase
By Cammy Clark
August 13, 2023 · 7:43 AM GMT+1
twitter sharing buttonemail sharing buttonsharethis sharing buttonlinkedin sharing button
Listen to this Article
2 minutes
AAA

During a media tour of downtown Lāhainā, devastation was everywhere. Aug. 12, 2023 (Photo by Tiffany DeMasters/Kauaʻi Now)
With the official death toll rising to 89 on Saturday, the Lāhainā Fire became the deadliest US fire in the past century, surpassing the 85 who perished in the 2018 Camp Fire in California that destroyed the town of Paradise.

The last time a U.S. fire was deadlier was Minnesota’s Cloquet fire in 1918. It was caused by sparks on the local railroads and dry conditions, killing 453 people.

Sadly, Hawaiʻi Gov. Josh Green said Saturday during a news conference that the Lāhainā Fire death toll “is going to rise.”

ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW AD
The search for victims will continue, with more help arriving from FEMA urban search and rescue teams and 12 additional cadaver-sniffing dogs.

But as of Saturday, only 3% of the burned area of Lāhainā has been thoroughly searched by dogs, Pelletier said.

“Weʻre not done with 89,” he said. “So just understand what this thing is. None of us really know the size of it. Everyone wants a number. Do you want it fast or do you want it right? We are going to do it right.”


Hawaiʻi Gov. Josh Green details the recovery efforts of the Lāhainā Fire during a press conference on Aug. 12, 2023. (Photo by Tiffany DeMasters/Kauaʻi Now)
ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW AD
To make sure everyone is found, Green, Pelletier and Maui Mayor Richard Bissen all reiterated that people need to stay out of the burned areas of Lāhainā.

“We’ve got an area that we have to contain that is at least five square miles and it is full of our loves ones,” Pelletier said.

“We know we got to go quick, but we got to do it right. When you pick up remains and they fall apart, and you have 200 people running through the scene [Friday], and some of them are you, that is what you are stepping on. I donʻt know how much more you want me to describe it. Thatʻs what you are stepping on.”

ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW AD
Of the 89 deceased who have been found, only two have been identified, Pelletier said.

“When we find our family and our friends, the remains we are finding is through a fire that melted metal,” he said. “We have to do rapid DNA to identify them. Everyone of these 89 are John and Jane Does.”


The Family Assistance Center is housed at the Kahului Community Center, 275 Uhu St. (Photo by Tiffany DeMasters/Kauaʻi Now)
People who have a missing family member should go to the Family Assistance Center to do a DNA test.

“We need to identify your loved ones,” Pelletier said.

The center is at the Kahului Community Center located at 275 Uhu St.


Search
Menu

Search Query
Donate

KHPR
All Things Considered
All Things Considered
KHPR

Health officials say cleanup of toxic materials in Lahaina may take months
Hawaii Public Radio | By Savannah Harriman-Pote
Published August 12, 2023 at 4:15 PM HST
Facebook
LinkedIn
Email

LISTEN • 1:45
Members of a search-and-rescue team walk along a street, Saturday, Aug. 12, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaiʻi, following heavy damage caused by wildfire.
Rick Bowmer
/
AP
Members of a search-and-rescue team walk along a street, Saturday, Aug. 12, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaiʻi, following heavy damage caused by wildfire.
State health officials say that cleanup of toxic materials resulting from the fire in Lahaina will likely take weeks, if not months.

"It's going to be a long time," said State toxicologist Diana Felton.

Over the next two weeks, Felton said teams led by the Environmental Protection Agency will work to remove obvious hazards, like propane tanks, from the area.

But the majority of ash and debris will take much longer to clear, and Felton warned that it may contain several toxic contaminants.

"These areas should be approached very carefully, very cautiously," Felton said.

There is a high chance that many of Lahaina's older buildings had lead paint or asbestos, since the town was built well before the 1970s.

These materials are likely still present in debris and could come in contact with skin or accidentally be inhaled. Arsenic, which was used in the 20th century as a herbicide on sugar and pineapple plantations, is another concern.

"You don't really want to be exposed to any of this stuff," Felton said.

The Pacific Disaster Center (PDC) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) released the following damage assessment map from wildfires in Maui County.
County Of Maui
The Pacific Disaster Center (PDC) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) released the following damage assessment map from wildfires in Maui County.
Maui County also issued a water advisory for upper Kula and Lahaina on Friday. Officials warn that it's currently unsafe to consume tap water in areas affected by the wildfire, even if the water has been boiled.

Felton said that in the long-term, the water will be useable, but "in the short term, we just need more information." The state Department of Health Safe Drinking Water Branch said they are planning to conduct drinking water testing throughout West Maui.

"Strange things can happen to the water" after a disaster, Felton said. "I'm optimistic that the water system will be able to be restored, but until we have a better sense of how much, if any, contamination is present, we won't have a timeframe on that."

The DOH is taking many of its cues on cleanup from federal agencies like the EPA and the Centers for Disease Control, as well as officials of other communities that have dealt with wildfires.

Wildfire wreckage is shown Friday, Aug. 11, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaiʻi.
Local News
Live updates: At least 96 dead on Maui from hurricane-fueled wildfires
Katie Arrington knows firsthand how difficult the cleanup process can be. She's the assistant recovery manager for the Recovery and Resiliency Division of Boulder County in Colorado.

In late 2021, the Marshall Fire burned over a thousand homes and businesses in Boulder County in less than 48 hours. It was one of the most destructive fires in Colorado's history.

Arrington said it could take her community up to seven years to rebuild.

Boulder health officials strongly advised against residents returning to the area in the immediate aftermath of the Marshall Fire, but Arrington said she understands why people want to return to their homes as soon as possible, even if little remains.

"Finding something they thought they lost forever, we found after the Marshall Fire that brought a lot of peace," Arrington said.

Captain Keao Shaw's businesses Makai Adventures and Kainani Sails face an uncertain future.
Local News
Lahaina boat captain navigates loss and recovery after fire depletes family business

LISTEN • 2:06
Maui County opened access to certain parts of Lahaina on Friday for west Maui residents. It was the first chance many evacuees had to return to the area since the fires broke out earlier this week.

But the Maui Police Department shut down access just a few hours later after reports of people entering the barricaded section of the destroyed Lahaina town.

"This zone has been declared by Mayor Bissen as an authorized personnel area only, and those caught within this zone will be escorted out and may be arrested," MPD said in a statement. "This area is an active police scene, and we need to preserve the dignity of lives lost and respect their surviving family."

"There's just a lot of dangerous stuff," Arrington said, including unstable structures and ash pockets in burned homes. But she acknowledged that it will be hard to keep people away, even if conditions are deemed unsafe. "Grassroots efforts are gonna do what they need to do to make people feel whole again. So just being as safe as you can is the best I can offer."

"I completely understand people's need and desire to go and check on their homes, particularly if the status of their home or their business is unknown," Felton agreed. "I think that is a lot of the drive of why the area was opened up so abruptly. People are just... they need to know."


Department Of Land And Natural Resources
/
Department Of Land And Natural Resources
In order to stay safe, Felton encouraged people to cover up as much as possible — with closed-toe shoes, pants, long-sleeve shirts, gloves, and goggles if possible. To avoid respiratory hazards, she said to wear a well-fitting mask. An N95 is best, but a surgical mask will also provide protection from ash.

However, those items may be hard to come by for evacuees, especially those who had to quickly flee or lost their homes in the fire.

"At this point, full extensive gear like this is not currently being provided [in shelters]," Felton said, though she did add that some surgical masks were being distributed to help curb the spread of COVID-19.

HPR reached out to the American Red Cross, which is running many of the shelters on Maui, to see if PPE was being provided or if there were plans to provide PPE to evacuees in the future. As of Saturday afternoon, they had not responded.

"I think it is on the long-term agenda to be able to help support people in that way, but there are more immediate needs in the current moment," Felton said.

On Saturday, Maui County re-opened access to west Maui for residents, this time routing people through Waiheʻe.

In a statement issued Saturday afternoon, officials reiterated that the Lahaina wildfire disaster area is closed: "People are required to stay out of the area, where search-and-rescue operations are underway, and there are possible hazards including toxic particles from smoldering areas."

Anyone entering the disaster area is subject to a misdemeanor crime punishable by up to one year in jail and a $2,000 fine.

"We don't need any more injuries or illness,” Felton said, “than have already occurred from this horrible event."

Read the state Department of Health’s full advisory here.

Tags
Local News MauiLahaina firessafety
Facebook
LinkedIn
Email

Savannah Harriman-Pote
Savannah Harriman-Pote is the energy and climate change reporter. She is also the lead producer of HPR's This Is Our Hawaiʻi podcast.
See stories by Savannah Harriman-Pote
Sign up for HPR newsletters
* indicates required
Email Address * 
HPR Station Updates
 Station Updates (every other week)
News Updates
 Island Insider (weekly news roundup)
 On The Lege (weekly legislative newsletter)
 This Is Our Hawaiʻi (limited series podcast)
Top NPR Stories
Coast Guard says 4 divers who went missing off S.C. coast were found alive
'Like it or not, we live in Oppenheimer's world,' says director Christopher Nolan
James McBride's 'Heaven & Earth' is an all-American mix of prejudice and hope
Clarence Avant, a major power broker in music, sports and politics, has died at 92
Custard shop that survived COVID and car crashes finds sweet success on Instagram
Related Stories

Local News
Maui-Lānaʻi ferry resumes service following fires
Catherine Cluett Pactol
,
1 hour ago
This weekend, the Maui-Lānaʻi Passenger Ferry resumed inter-island service for the first time since the fire halted its route into Lahaina.

LISTEN • 1:14
Mindi Cherry, a first-grade teacher at King Kamehameha III Elementary School, recently returned to her Lahaina home in search of her wedding ring.
Local News
'It's completely gutted': Wildfires claim Lahaina teacher's classroom and house
Cassie Ordonio
,
3 hours ago
Over 50 educators lost their homes or suffered damages from the fire. The State Teachers Association is still gathering data on how many public school teachers are displaced from their homes. The survey revealed at least 71 teachers on Maui offered to help their colleagues. HPR's Cassie Ordonio has more.


Al Jazeera
See this story on our app
VIEW IN APP
Skip links
Skip to Content
LIVE

News
|
Climate
Hawaii wildfire death toll hits 80 as probe launched into blaze response
Hawaii’s attorney general opens investigation into official response to deadly wildfire.



Video Duration 02 minutes 10 seconds
02:10
Published On 12 Aug 2023
12 Aug 2023
Updated: 
13 Aug 2023
05:48 AM (GMT)
The death toll from wildfires on Hawaii’s Maui has risen to 80 as search teams combed through the smouldering ruins of Lahaina town, and officials sought to determine how the inferno spread so rapidly through the historic resort area with little warning.

Hawaii’s attorney general said on Friday that she was opening a probe into how authorities responded to devastating wildfires that have left at least 80 people dead and 1,418 people at emergency evacuation shelters, according to the latest figures.

KEEP READING
list of 4 items
list 1 of 4
What is the environmental impact of the Hawaii fires?
list 2 of 4
Photos: Deadly wildfires devastate Hawaii’s Maui island
list 3 of 4
‘Like an apocalypse’: Hawaii wildfire death toll soars to 36
list 4 of 4
‘It’s gone forever’: Wildfires ravage town at heart of Hawaiian culture
end of list
“The Department of the Attorney General will be conducting a comprehensive review of critical decision-making and standing policies leading up to, during, and after the wildfires on Maui and Hawaii islands this week,” the office of Attorney General Anne Lopez said in a statement.

The fires have become the deadliest natural disaster in Hawaii’s history, surpassing that of a tsunami that killed 61 people on the Big Island of Hawaii in 1960, a year after Hawaii joined the United States.

Fuelled by dry conditions, hot temperatures and strong winds from a passing hurricane, at least three wildfires erupted on Maui this week, racing through parched brush covering the island.

Maui County officials said in an online statement that firefighters continued to battle the blaze, which was not yet fully contained. Residents of Lahaina were being allowed to return home for the first time to assess the damage.

Officials have warned that search teams with cadaver dogs could still find more dead from the fire that torched 1,000 buildings and left thousands homeless and will likely require many years and billions of dollars to rebuild.

Play Video
Video Duration 01 minutes 00 seconds
01:00
Dramatic videos show extent of deadly Hawaii wildfires
Al Jazeera’s Shihab Rattansi, reporting from Maui, said there was a lengthy traffic jam as residents were allowed to return briefly on Friday to Lahaina to assess the damage from the fire. Information released by authorities on Friday also reported that victims of the fire had died while trying to flee the fast-moving blaze.

Sign up for Al Jazeera
Americas Coverage Newsletter
US politics, Canada’s multiculturalism, South America’s geopolitical rise—we bring you the stories that matter.
E-mail address
Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy
“Another sign of the speed with which people were caught by this fire,” Rattansi said.

‘Nightmare scenario’
Three days after the disaster, it remained unclear whether some residents had received any warning before the fire engulfed their homes.

The island includes emergency sirens intended to warn of natural disasters and other threats, but they did not appear to have sounded during the fire.

“I authorised a comprehensive review this morning to make sure that we know exactly what happened and when,” Hawaii Governor Josh Green told CNN, referring to the warning sirens.

Officials have not offered a detailed picture of precisely what notifications were sent out, and whether they were done via text message, email or phone calls.

Play Video
Video Duration 00 minutes 50 seconds
00:50
Raging wildfires tear through historic tourist town in Maui, Hawaii
Maui County Fire Chief Bradford Ventura said at a Thursday press conference that the fire’s speed made it “nearly impossible” for front-line responders to communicate with the emergency management officials who would typically provide real-time evacuation orders.

“They were basically self-evacuating with fairly little notice,” he said, referring to residents of the neighbourhood where the fire initially struck.

The Maui blazes are the latest wildfires that have struck this summer around the globe.

Fires forced tens of thousands of people in Greece, Spain, Portugal and other parts of Europe to evacuate, while in western Canada, smoke from a series of severe fires blanketed a vast swath of the US Midwest and East Coast.

Play Video
Video Duration 01 minutes 59 seconds
01:59
Climate emergency: Record heatwave sparks wildfires in Europe
The disaster began unfolding just after midnight on Tuesday when a brush fire was reported in the town of Kula, roughly 56km (35 miles) from Lahaina. About five hours later that morning, power was knocked out in Lahaina, according to residents.

By that afternoon, however, the situation had turned dire. At approximately 3:30pm local time (01:30 GMT Wednesday), according to the county’s updates, the Lahaina fire suddenly flared up. Some residents began evacuating while people, including hotel guests, on the town’s west side were instructed to shelter in place.

In the ensuing hours, the county posted a series of evacuation orders on Facebook as the fire spread through the town.

Some witnesses said they had little advance notice, describing their terror when the blaze consumed Lahaina in what seemed a matter of minutes. Several people were forced to leap into the Pacific Ocean to save themselves.

Play Video
Video Duration 02 minutes 20 seconds
02:20
Wildfires kill six on Hawaii’s Maui island as strong winds fan flames
The Lahaina evacuation was complicated by its coastal location next to hills, meaning there were only two ways out, at best, said Andrew Rumbach, a specialist in climate and communities at the Urban Institute in Washington.

“This is the nightmare scenario,” said Rumbach, a former urban planning professor at the University of Hawaii.

“A fast-moving fire in a densely populated place with difficult communications, and not a lot of good options in terms of evacuations.”

SOURCE: AL JAZEERA AND NEWS AGENCIES
LISTEN TO THESE PODCASTS
podcast episode artwork
play
From: The Inside Story Podcast
Will talks between The United States and the Taliban bring hope?
The Taliban and U.S. meet face-to-face - as Afghanistan endures one of the world's worst humanitarian crises. Afghan funds...
podcast episode artwork
play
From: The Take
Is climate rebellion the future?
Peter Kalmus is a US climate scientist who’s fed up with inaction. In April 2022, he chained himself to a bank in protest ...
podcast episode artwork
play
From: The Inside Story Podcast
Is climate change or other factors causing heat waves, floods, and ...
The northern hemisphere is witnessing unprecedented heat, floods, and fires. But is it all climate change, or are other fa...
RELATED
What is the en­vi­ron­men­tal im­pact of the Hawaii fires?
The ef­fects on the land­scape and en­vi­ron­ment in Maui are ex­pect­ed to be sig­nif­i­cant and to last for years.

Published On 11 Aug 2023
11 Aug 2023
An aerial view of a wildfire in Kihei, Maui County, Hawaii, U.S
‘It’s gone for­ev­er’: Wild­fires rav­age town at heart of Hawai­ian cul­ture
Large parts of La­ha­nia, the for­mer cap­i­tal of the King­dom of Hawaii, have been left in ash­es as the Maui fires burn.

Published On 10 Aug 2023
10 Aug 2023

Pho­tos: Wild­fires rav­age Greece, Italy as Mediter­ranean swel­ters
High tem­per­a­tures and parched ground have sparked wild­fires in coun­tries on both sides of the Mediter­ranean.

Published On 25 Jul 2023
25 Jul 2023
Locals try to extinguish a wildfire burning in Gennadi village, on the Aegean Sea island of Rhodes
More than 1,000 evac­u­at­ed in south­ern Por­tu­gal as wild­fires rage
High tem­per­a­tures and strong winds ham­per bat­tle against wild­fires, with con­di­tions ex­pect­ed to re­main chal­leng­ing.


Skip to main content Turn off refresh
Subscribe
Sign In
Most Popular
Motorcyclist killed Saturday evening in Alton
Smithfield, largest pork producer, closing Missouri farms
Steve "Elvis" Davis performs in Alton Tuesday
Crowds turn out for free backpacks in Alton
Convicted murderer sentenced for DUI
Illinois residents get free admission to Chicago's Shedd Aquarium
Ag 'Transformer' visits Alton farmers' market
Beer lovers welcome back Rock the Hops
NEWS
Death toll on Maui rising, becomes deadliest U.S. fire in 100 years
CLAIRE RUSH, AUDREY MCAVOY and CHRISTOPHER WEBER
, 
Associated Press
Updated: Aug. 14, 2023 8:11 a.m.
Comments
29
A group of volunteers who sailed from Maalaea Bay, Maui, form an assembly line on Kaanapali Beach on Saturday Aug. 12, 2023, to unload donations from a boat. Maui residents have come together to donate water, food and other essential supplies to people on the western side of the island after a deadly fire destroyed hundreds of homes and left scores of people homeless.
1
of
29A group of volunteers who sailed from Maalaea Bay, Maui, form an assembly line on Kaanapali Beach on Saturday Aug. 12, 2023, to unload donations from a boat. Maui residents have come together to donate water, food and other essential supplies to people on the western side of the island after a deadly fire destroyed hundreds of homes and left scores of people homeless.Rick Bowmer/APShow More
LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) — Parishioners mourned the dead and prayed for the missing Sunday in Hawaii churches as communities began looking ahead to a long recovery from last week's wildfire that demolished a historic Maui town and killed more than 90 people.

Maria Lanakila Church in Lahaina was spared from the flames that wiped out most of the surrounding community, but with search-and-recovery efforts ongoing, its members attended Mass about 10 miles up the road, with the Bishop of Honolulu, the Rev. Clarence “Larry” Silva, presiding.

Taufa Samisoni said his uncle, aunt, cousin and the cousin’s 7-year-old son were found dead inside a burned car. Samisoni's wife, Katalina, said the family would draw comfort from Silva's reference to the Bible story of how Jesus' disciple Peter walked on water and was saved from drowning.

“If Peter can walk on water, yes we can. We will get to the shore,” she said, her voice quivering.

During the Mass, Silva read a message from Pope Francis, who said he was praying for those who lost loved ones, homes and livelihoods. He also conveyed prayers for first responders.

Silva later told The Associated Press that the community is worried about its children, who have witnessed tragedy and are anxious.

“The more they can be in a normal situation with their peers and learning and having fun, I think the better off they’ll be,” Silva said.

Meanwhile, Hawaii officials urged tourists to avoid traveling to Maui as many hotels prepared to house evacuees and first responders.

About 46,000 residents and visitors have flown out of Kahului Airport in West Maui since the devastation in Lahaina became clear Wednesday, according to the Hawaii Tourism Authority.

"In the weeks ahead, the collective resources and attention of the federal, state and county government, the West Maui community, and the travel industry must be focused on the recovery of residents who were forced to evacuate their homes and businesses," the agency said in a statement late Saturday. Tourists are encouraged to visit Hawaii's other islands.

Gov. Josh Green said 500 hotels rooms will be made available for locals who have been displaced. An additional 500 rooms will be set aside for workers from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Some hotels will carry on with normal business to help preserve jobs and sustain the local economy, Green said.

The state wants to work with Airbnb to make sure that rental homes can be made available for locals. Green hopes that the company will be able to provide three- to nine-month rentals for those who have lost homes.

“There’s very little left there,” Green said, holding up a map of the area titled “Buildings Damaged in Maui Wildfires Lahaina Area.”

More than 2,700 structures were destroyed in Lahaina and “an estimated value of $5.6 billion has gone away.” But mostly there are people suffering and the government is continuing to work to find them, he said in a video statement Sunday,

As the death toll around Lahaina climbed to 96 authorities warned that the effort to find and identify the dead was still in its early stages. The blaze is already the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century.

“I will tell you this, as a physician, it is a harrowing sight in Maui,” Green said. “When those providers, the police and this division, do come across scenes in houses or businesses it is very difficult for them because they know, ultimately, they will be sharing with our people that there have been more fatalities. I do expect the numbers to rise.”

Crews with cadaver dogs have covered just 3% of the search area, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said Saturday.

Lylas Kanemoto is awaiting word about the fate of her cousin, Glen Yoshino.

“I’m afraid he is gone because we have not heard from him, and he would’ve found a way to contact family. We are hoping for the best, but preparing for the worst,” Kanemoto said Sunday. Family members will submit DNA to help identify any remains.

The family was grieving the death of four other relatives. The remains of Faaso and Malui Fonua Tone, their daughter, Salote Takafua, and her son, Tony Takafua, were found inside a charred car.

“At least we have closure for them, but the loss and heartbreak is unbearable for many,” Kanemoto said.

As many as 4,500 people are in need of shelter, county officials said on Facebook, citing figures from the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Pacific Disaster Center.

J.P. Mayoga, a cook at the Westin Maui in Kaanapali, is still making breakfast, lunch and dinner on a daily basis. But instead of serving hotel guests, he’s been feeding the roughly 200 hotel employees and their family members who have been living there since Tuesday’s fire devastated the Lahaina community just south of the resort.

His home and that of his father were spared. But his girlfriend, two young daughters, father and another local are all staying in a hotel room together, as it is safer than Lahaina, which is covered in toxic debris.

Newsletter promotional image made with Canva
Newsletters: Get local news delivered directly to you
MORE NEWS
Renfroe named Dean of Students at Greenville
Crawford follows Clare path from Jerseyville to McKendree
New owners take over popular Carrollton pizza joint
Maui water officials warned Lahaina and Kula residents not to drink running water, which may be contaminated even after boiling, and to only take short, lukewarm showers in well-ventilated rooms to avoid possible chemical vapor exposure.

“Everybody has their story, and everybody lost something. So everybody can be there for each other, and they understand what’s going on in each other’s lives,” he said of his co-workers at the hotel.

Hawaii Island Mayor Mitch Roth warned that the recovery effort will be a “marathon not a sprint." In order to keep the effort “coordinated and thoughtful,” Roth urged Hawaii residents to contribute money to established nonprofits and hold off on donating physical items because there is not yet a reliable distribution system in place.

The latest death toll surpassed that of the 2018 Camp Fire in northern California, which left 85 dead and destroyed the town of Paradise.

The cause of the wildfires is under investigation. The fires are Hawaii's deadliest natural disaster in decades, surpassing a 1960 tsunami that killed 61 people. An even deadlier tsunami in 1946 killed more than 150 on the Big Island.

Fueled by a dry summer and strong winds from a passing hurricane, the flames on Maui raced through parched brush covering the island.

The most serious blaze swept into Lahaina on Tuesday and destroyed nearly every building in the town of 13,000, leaving a grid of gray rubble wedged between the blue ocean and lush green slopes.

Elsewhere on Maui, at least two other fires have been burning: in south Maui’s Kihei area and in the mountainous, inland communities known as Upcountry. No fatalities have been reported from those blazes.

___

Weber reported from Los Angeles. Associated Press journalists Haven Daley in Kalapua, Hawaii; Ty O’Neil in Lahaina, Hawaii; Bobby Caina Calvan and Beatrice Dupuy in New York; Sara Cline in Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and Pat Eaton-Robb in Hartford, Connecticut, contributed to this report.

___

Associated Press climate and environmental coverage receives support from several private foundations. See more about AP’s climate initiative here. The AP is solely responsible for all content.

We use cookies to enhance your experience. By continuing to visit this site you agree to our privacy policy and use of cookies. Learn more
OK
mainlogo
   
www.travelmarketreport.com
MENU
 
Sponsored By ALG
Maui Fires Update: Which Hotels and Resorts Are Open and Closed After Lahaina Fires
by Daniel McCarthy / August 12, 2023
 Lahaina, Hawaii pre wildfires aerial view 
Lahaina, Hawaii before this week's fires. Photo: Rich Lonardo / Shutterstock.com

ShareFacebookTwitterLinkedInEmail
This week's wildfires that tore through Maui and the town of Lahaina caused widespread destruction on the island. According to the latest reports, at least 67 people lost their lives due to the fires, and thousands of buildings were left in ruins, including some of the island's most iconic tourist sites.

Several hotels in the town of Lahaina have been ravaged by the flames, among them the historic Best Western Pioneer Inn. Meanwhile, hotels in the Kaanapali resort area have remained unaffected, as reported by the Honolulu Star-Advertiser. Here's a property-by-property breakdown in the aftermath of this week's crisis:

Andaz Maui at Wailea Resort
Andaz Maui said on Thursday that it is still operating and unaffected by the fires at this time, but reiterated the state’s non-essential travel warning.

“We are closely monitoring the active situation. We encourage all travelers to check ehawaii.gov for the latest updates. All non-essential travel to Maui is strongly discouraged at this time. Our hearts are with all those who have been impacted. Mahalo for your understanding and support,” it said.

Fairmont Kea Lani
The Fairmont Kea Lani is open and remains unaffected by the fires as of Thursday.

“The safety of our colleagues and guests is our top priority. We will continue to monitor and provide updates on the fire as they become available. Mahalo for your understanding and support,” it said in a statement.

Four Seasons Resort Maui at Wailea’s Post
In a statement on social media late this week, the Four Seasons Resort Maui at Wailea’s Post, the top hotel in Maui according to U.S. News and World Report, said it is continuing to monitor the situation but it is currently open. Still, it said guests should abide by the state’s non-essential travel order.

“We are currently open and are continuing to monitor the situation. In support of those displaced or impacted by the fires, all non-essential travel to Maui is strongly discouraged at this time. Mahalo,” it said on Thursday.

Grand Wailea
Grand Wailea, a Waldorf Astoria Resort, went unaffected by the fires and remains open.

“At this time, Grand Wailea and our surrounding community is not affected by the fires. We are closely monitoring the situation and following all instructions & directives from our local and state authorities to ensure we are doing everything possible to keep our guests, staff, and community safe,” it said in an update.

Ho’olio House
Ho’olio House, a luxury B&B on Maui, said in a message on social media that it remains safe, but that the Lahaina community has been “utterly destroyed.”

“We are safe. We heard from a neighbor today that Ho’oilo House and our neighborhood still stand. However, Lahaina is utterly destroyed. Our hearts are broken,” it said.

“The State of Hawaii is asking that visitors not travel to Maui for at least the next couple of weeks. We will keep you updated as firefighting, clean up, and search and rescue efforts continue in Lahaina. Please note that during this difficult time on the island we might be slower to answer emails or texts.”

Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa
The Hyatt Regency Maui is closed through at least Aug. 17 and not accepting any new guests. Any deposits and prepayments for canceled stays on these dates, including prepaid rates, will be refunded.

“In response to the wildfire situation that originated in Lahaina, Maui, Hyatt Regency Maui has implemented emergency preparedness procedures in an effort to ensure the safety and security of our guests and colleagues. At this time, we can confirm the hotel is closed to arrivals and not accepting guests through 08/17/2023,” the hotel’s website reads.

Marriott’s Maui Ocean Club
According to an update on Friday morning, the hotel remains without power, telephone (including cell service), and 911 service. According to Hawaiian Electric, the outages could last for weeks.

“Due to limited resources on Maui (limited food/water supply), visitors are being asked to leave the island as soon as possible. The resort, and the Hawaii governor’s office, are discouraging nonessential travel through August 31 to allow an effective emergency response to the wildfires,” it said.

Montage Kapalua Bay
Montage, the parent company of the hotel, has established an emergency fund to assist its workers who have been directly affected by the fires. Donations can be made here.

Outrigger Ka'anapali Beach Resort
The Outrigger was unaffected by the fires, according to statements on social media.

“We extend our heartfelt appreciation to the first responders for their efforts and thank our guests for their patience and understanding during this time,” it said.

Outrigger is also asking guests to donate to the Hawaii Community Foundation to help those displaced by the fires.

The Ritz-Carlton Maui, Kapalua
The Ritz-Carlton Maui, Kapalua is currently closed due to extended power outages. Just like its other resorts, Marriott is waiving cancellation fees through August 31.

Royal Lahaina Resort & Bungalows
The resort was unaffected by the fires and remained open through the week. However, the power remained out late into the week.

“The destruction caused by wildfires across our beautiful island of Maui is devastating. Our top priority is taking care of our guests, staff, their families, and our community.

“All non-essential travel to Maui is currently strongly discouraged. The reservations team is standing by to assist with refunding and rebooking your Maui travel to a future date. To check availability, contact 1-833-539-5117,” the resort’s latest update reads.

Sheraton Maui Resort & Spa
The Sheraton Maui Resort & Spa is another Marriott property temporarily closed because of power outages. “This hotel is temporarily closed due to an extended power outage,” the hotel’s website reads.

Just like the other Marriott properties, cancelation fees have been waived through Aug. 31.

“Our teams have focused on facilitating this evacuation, communicating with guests, and supporting our associates during this difficult time,” Sara Conneighton, a spokesperson for Marriott International, told TMR earlier this week. “We are grateful to local emergency responders, as well as government and industry partners, and we are mobilizing to support relief efforts.”

Westin Ka'anapali Ocean Resort Villas
According to its website, the Westin Ka'anapali is open but remains without power, just like much of the Western Maui cost.

“Due to limited resources on Maui (limited food/water supply), visitors are being asked to leave the island as soon as possible. The resort, and the Hawaii governor’s office, are discouraging nonessential travel through August 31 to allow an effective emergency response to the wildfires,” it said in an update.

Westin Maui Resort & Spa
The Westin Maui Resort & Spa, one of a few Marriott hotels impacted by the fire, is closed for the time being. Marriott is waiving cancellation fees for all of its impacted resorts through the end of August.

“This hotel is temporarily closed due to an extended power outage,” an update on the resort’s website says.

ShareFacebookTwitterLinkedInEmail
  169  0
Related Articles
Travel to West Maui ‘Strongly Discouraged’ for Near Future
Maui Travel Update: Lahaina 'Gone,' Airlines Offer More Flexibility for Tourists
Maui Fire Update: Evacuations, Hotel Closures, and Airline Changes
Hawaii Urges Against ‘All Non-Essential Travel’ to Maui as Fires Burn
First Look: Southwest Airlines’ Hawaii-Themed Plane
Hawaii’s Iao Valley State Monument Reopens with One Big Change
Southwest Airlines Issues Travel Advisory for Hawaii After Mauna Loa Volcano Eruption
United Airlines Is Cutting Some of Its Hawaii Flights
Travel, and Tourism, in Hawaii is Officially Back-to-Normal
Hawaii Is Dropping Its Indoor Mask Mandate on March 25
 MOST VIEWED

Maui Fire Update: Evacuations, Hotel Closures, and Airline Changes
Maui Fires Update: Which Hotels and Resorts Are Open and Closed After Lahaina Fires
Strikes in Italy Cause Flight Cancellations, Cruise Delays
Everything Travelers Should Know About ETIAS, EU’s Visa Requirement Starting in 2024
Royal Caribbean Monitoring Haiti Violence
Minimal Impact, So Far, From Low Rhine River Water Levels

What Is Skiplagging and Why Advisors Should Know About It
U.S. Embassy in Dublin Issues Security Alert
Hawaii Urges Against ‘All Non-Essential Travel’ to Maui as Fires Burn
5 Unforgettable Seasonal and Themed European River Cruises
Princess Adds Fees for Pre-Cruise Medallion Shipping, OceanNow Anywhere Delivery
Maui Travel Update: Lahaina 'Gone,' Airlines Offer More Flexibility for Tourists
TMR SUBSCRIPTION
Subscribe today to receive daily in-depth coverage, analysis of industry news, trends and issues that affect how you do business. Subscribe now for free.
Subscribe to TMR


Skip to content
KTLA
78°
LIVE
Toggle Menu
WEATHER ALERT
There are 4 areas under alert. Click for alert details.
Wildfire damage is shown, Saturday, Aug. 12, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaii. (AP Photo/Rick Bowmer)
NATION/WORLD
Death toll from Maui wildfire reaches 89, making it the deadliest in the US in more than 100 years
Wildfire damage is shown, Saturday, Aug. 12, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaii. (AP Photo/Rick Bowmer)

by: CLAIRE RUSH, BEATRICE DUPUY and JENNIFER SINCO KELLEHER, Associated Press

Posted: Aug 12, 2023 / 09:13 PM PDT

Updated: Aug 12, 2023 / 09:21 PM PDT

LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) — A raging wildfire that swept through a picturesque town on the Hawaiian island of Maui this week has killed at least 89 people, authorities said Saturday, making it the deadliest U.S. wildfire of the past century.

The new death toll Saturday came as federal emergency workers with axes and cadaver dogs picked through the aftermath of the blaze, marking the ruins of homes with a bright orange X for an initial search and HR when they found human remains.

Dogs worked the rubble, and their occasional bark — used to alert their handlers to a possible corpse — echoed over the hot and colorless landscape.

The inferno that swept through the centuries-old town of Lahaina on Maui’s west coast four days earlier torched hundreds of homes and turned a lush, tropical area into a moonscape of ash. The state’s governor predicted more bodies will be found.

“It’s going to rise,” Gov. Josh Green remarked Saturday as he toured the devastation on historic Front Street. “It will certainly be the worst natural disaster that Hawaii ever faced. … We can only wait and support those who are living. Our focus now is to reunite people when we can and get them housing and get them health care, and then turn to rebuilding.”

Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said two of the 89 victims have been identified so far, adding that identifying the dead is extremely challenging because “we pick up the remains and they fall apart.”

“When we find our family and our friends, the remains that we’re finding is through a fire that melted metal. We have to do rapid DNA to identify them. Every one of these 89 are John and Jane Does,” he said. “We know we’ve got to go quick, but we’ve got to do it right,”

At least 2,200 buildings were damaged or destroyed in West Maui, Green said, of which 86% were residential. Across the island, he added, damage was estimated at close to $6 billion. He said it would take “an incredible amount of time” to recover.”

At least two other fires have been burning in Maui, with no fatalities reported thus far: in south Maui’s Kihei area and in the mountainous, inland communities known as Upcountry. A fourth broke out Friday evening in Kaanapali, a coastal community in West Maui north of Lahaina, but crews were able to extinguish it, authorities said.

Green said the Upcountry fire had affected 544 structures, of which 96% were residential.

Emergency managers in Maui were searching for places to house people displaced from their homes. As many as 4,500 people are in need of shelter, county officials said on Facebook early Saturday, citing figures from the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Pacific Disaster Center.

Those who escaped counted their blessings, thankful to be alive as they mourned those who didn’t make it.

Retired fire captain Geoff Bogar and his friend of 35 years, Franklin Trejos, initially stayed behind to help others in Lahaina and save Bogar’s house. But as the flames moved closer and closer Tuesday afternoon, they knew they had to get out. Each escaped to his own car. When Bogar’s wouldn’t start, he broke through a window to get out, then crawled on the ground until a police patrol found him and brought him to a hospital.

Trejos wasn’t as lucky. When Bogar returned the next day, he found the bones of his 68-year-old friend in the back seat of his car, lying on top of the remains of the Bogars’ beloved 3-year-old golden retriever Sam, whom he had tried to protect.

Trejos, a native of Costa Rica, had lived for years with Bogar and his wife, Shannon Weber-Bogar, helping her with her seizures when her husband couldn’t. He filled their lives with love and laughter.

“God took a really good man,” Weber-Bogar said.

Bill Wyland, who lives on the island of Oahu but owns an art gallery on Lahaina’s historic Front Street, fled on his Harley Davidson, whipping the motorcycle onto empty sidewalks Tuesday to avoid traffic-jammed roads as embers burned the hair off the back of his neck.

Riding in winds he estimated to be at least 70 miles per hour (112 kilometers per hour), he passed a man on a bicycle who was pedaling for his life.

“It’s something you’d see in a Twilight Zone, horror movie or something,” Wyland said.

The newly released death toll surpassed the toll of the 2018 Camp Fire in northern California, which left 85 dead and destroyed the town of Paradise. A century earlier, the 1918 Cloquet Fire broke out in drought-stricken northern Minnesota and raced through a number of rural communities, destroying thousands of homes and killing hundreds.

The wildfires are the state’s deadliest natural disaster in decades, surpassing a 1960 tsunami that killed 61 people. An even deadlier tsunami in 1946, which killed more than 150 on the Big Island, prompted development of a territory-wide emergency alert system with sirens that are tested monthly.

Hawaii emergency management records do not indicate the warning sirens sounded before fire hit the town. Officials sent alerts to mobile phones, televisions and radio stations, but widespread power and cellular outages may have limited their reach.

Fueled by a dry summer and strong winds from a passing hurricane, the wildfires on Maui raced through parched brush covering the island.

The most serious blaze swept into Lahaina on Tuesday and destroyed nearly every building in the town of 13,000, leaving a grid of gray rubble wedged between the blue ocean and lush green slopes.

Front Street, the heart of the historic downtown and Maui’s economic hub, was nearly empty of life Saturday morning. An Associated Press journalist encountered one barefoot resident carrying a laptop and a passport, who asked where the nearest shelter was. Another, riding a bicycle, took stock of the damage at the harbor, where he said his boat caught fire and sank.

Maui water officials warned Lahaina and Kula residents not to drink running water, which may be contaminated even after boiling, and to only take short, lukewarm showers in well-ventilated rooms to avoid possible chemical vapor exposure.

The danger on Maui was well known. Maui County’s hazard mitigation plan updated in 2020 identified Lahaina and other West Maui communities as having frequent wildfires and several buildings at risk. The report also noted West Maui had the island’s second-highest rate of households without a vehicle and the highest rate of non-English speakers.

“This may limit the population’s ability to receive, understand and take expedient action during hazard events,” the plan stated.

Maui’s firefighting efforts may have been hampered by limited staff and equipment.

Bobby Lee, president of the Hawaii Firefighters Association, said there are a maximum of 65 county firefighters working at any given time, who are responsible for three islands: Maui, Molokai and Lanai.

Green said officials will review policies and procedures to improve safety.

“People have asked why we are reviewing what’s going on and it’s because the world has changed. A storm now can be a hurricane-fire or a fire-hurricane,” he said. “That’s what we experienced, that’s why we’re looking into these policies, to find out how we can best protect our people.”

Riley Curran said he fled his Front Street home after climbing up a neighboring building to get a better look. He doubts county officials could have done more, given the speed of the onrushing flames.

“It’s not that people didn’t try to do anything,” Curran said. “The fire went from zero to 100.”

Curran said he had seen horrendous wildfires growing up in California.

But, he added, “I’ve never seen one eat an entire town in four hours.”




