11:57 p.m. ET, August 11, 2023
Maui police shut down only public road in and out of Lahaina
From CNN’s Mike Valerio and Cole Higgins 

In an aerial view, cars back up for miles on the Honoapiilani highway as residents are allowed back into areas affected by the recent wildfire on August 11, 2023 in Wailuku, Hawaii.
In an aerial view, cars back up for miles on the Honoapiilani highway as residents are allowed back into areas affected by the recent wildfire on August 11, 2023 in Wailuku, Hawaii. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images
After allowing Lahaina residents to briefly return to the devastated town Friday, Maui Police abruptly shut down the main road into Lahaina just before 4 p.m. local time. 

The Maui Police Department said the closure was "effective immediately," according to a Facebook post. 

CNN affiliate Hawaii News Now reported residents disregarded access rules within Lahaina, leading law enforcement to shut down entry. Local media reports showed the roadway congested, as officers redirected vehicles. 

Law enforcement began allowing members of the public past road blocks to check on property only hours earlier. It remains unclear when public traffic will be restored.


11:05 p.m. ET, August 11, 2023
The Lahaina fire is now Hawaii’s deadliest natural disaster in state history. Here's what to know
From CNN staff

Wildfire wreckage is seen from an aerial view in Lahaina on Thursday.
Wildfire wreckage is seen from an aerial view in Lahaina on Thursday. Rick Bowmer/AP
At least 67 people have died in the wildfires that torched the Hawaiian island of Maui. This officially makes the Lahaina fire Hawaii’s deadliest natural disaster in state history, surpassing the 61 confirmed deaths from a tsunami in Hilo in 1960.

Crews have not yet searched the inside of most of the burned buildings, specifically structures in the hard-hit city of Lahaina, officials said. The fire in Lahaina is now 85% contained, the county said Friday.

Hawaii Attorney General Anne Lopez will spearhead a “comprehensive review” of decisions made by officials in response to the fires, her office announced. Hawaii Gov. Josh Green, who authorized the review, said an organized response was hampered by power outages and damage to the phone network.

Here's where things stand Friday:

Search efforts: Search and rescue teams with cadaver dogs from California and Washington are in Maui to assist, according to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The federal government has released enough food and water to support 5,000 people for five days, the White House said. Hawaii County has created a task force to support Maui, including helping people find housing, Mayor Mitch Roth said.
Lahaina: Residents with identification showing proof of residency, and visitors with proof of hotel reservations, were allowed back in the area on Friday. CNN affiliate KVVU showed footage of cars lining up on the only access road. The governor previously estimated that about 80% of the town, the economic hub of the region, was destroyed by the fires. The US Coast Guard said it rescued 17 people who fled into the Pacific Ocean to escape the wildfire flames that destroyed the town.
Limited resources: A "mass influx" of people have been seeking assistance at food banks, Maui Food Bank Executive Director Richard Yust said. He said resources on the island are limited and that even an expedited ocean freight is two weeks away. People need food, water, cleaning products and hygiene products, he said. Hundreds of displaced Maui residents tell CNN they are trying to find loved ones while grappling with losing their homes.
Emergency alerts: Maui’s warning sirens were not activated when the Lahaina fire began on Tuesday, records show, according to the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency. But other layers of the emergency warning system were triggered, including mobile phone alerts and messages on televisions and radio stations, a spokesperson said. Additionally, Hawaii officials underestimated the deadly threat of wildfires, according to a CNN review of state and local emergency planning documents.
Communication updates: Maui County started providing updates on the aftermath of wildfires in the area via radio stations. Information will also be posted on the county's website and social media pages. However, power and internet are still out in much of West Maui, according to a hyperlocal nonprofit organization that said it has not been able to reach people.
Federal reaction: Vice President Kamala Harris said she and President Joe Biden are closely monitoring the ongoing crisis in Hawaii. The White House said Biden spoke with Hawaii Gov. Josh Green again on Friday. Sen. Brian Schatz, a Democrat from Hawaii, said Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer would push to include funding for Maui disaster relief in the supplemental funding bill. Meantime, US Health and Human Services has declared a public health emergency in Hawaii.
Why the fires have been so hard to contain: Drought worsened in Hawaii over the past week, leading to fire spread, according to the US Drought Monitor released Thursday. High winds from Hurricane Dora 500 miles south of Hawaii coupled with low humidity levels produced "dangerous fire weather conditions” through Wednesday afternoon, the weather service said. Invasive grasses and shrubs also become highly flammable in the dry season, scientists said.
How to help: Help is desperately needed for people displaced by the fires, and residents CNN interviewed this week urged viewers and readers to contribute if they can. You can support relief efforts here.

READ MORE:
'Like something out of a horror movie': At least 6 dead and communities decimated in Maui wildfires
By Holly Yan, Christina Maxouris, Amanda Jackson and Jamiel Lynch, CNN

How to help Hawaii wildfire victims
CNN Impact Your World

Why cell phone service is down in Maui — and when it could be restored
By Samantha Murphy Kelly, CNN

Why did the Maui fire spread so fast? Drought, nonnative species and climate change among possible reasons
By Rachel Ramirez, CNN





×
Search Maui Now

Aloha, Guest!
Login | Register
News Topics
Front Page
Maui News
Business
Food & Dining
Arts & Entertainment
Real Estate
Crime Statistics
Local Sports
Weather & Surf
Weather Forecast
Surf Report
Lifestyle & Culture
Maui Arts & Entertainment
Food and Dining
Obituaries
On the Menu
Real Estate
Visitors’ Guide
Opinion
Maui Discussion
Reader Survey
Events Calendar
Upcoming Maui Events
Map of Events
Post an Event
Job Listings
Maui Jobs
Recent Job Listings
Job Alerts
Post a Job
Special Sections
IMUA Discovery Garden
Medical Minute
Video
Latest Maui Videos
About Maui Now
Newsletter
Contact Information
Get the App
Advertising
Meet the Team
Choose Your Island:
Copyright © 2023 Pacific Media Group
All Rights Reserved
Privacy Policy | About Our Ads

Maui Now

Maui News
Maui wildfire updates for Aug. 11: Death toll rises to 80; Limited access to West Maui closed due to unauthorized entry into restricted areas
August 11, 2023 · 4:30 PM GMT+1
* Updated August 12, 2023 · 2:45 PM
8.5k
Shares
twitter sharing buttonsharethis sharing buttonlinkedin sharing buttonfacebook sharing button
Listen to this Article
5 minutes
AAA

Video and photos from Aug. 10, 2023 in and around Lahaina Small Boat Harbor, as well as Maui Fire Dept. personnel continuing to extinguish hot spots. (8.10.23) VC: DLNR Hawaiʻi.
Wildfire updates (new link for Aug. 12): HERE
Lahaina Front Street photo journey: West Maui wildfire aftermath: https://tinyurl.com/4ratx8aj

Maui fire crews continue to battle three large wildfires–one in Lahaina, one in Pūlehu that has traveled down to Kīhei; and one in Kula, which has burned more than 1,000 acres since it was first reported early Tuesday morning. As of today:

There are 80 deaths / 270 structures impacted/destroyed
3 active fires: Lahaina (85% contained); Pūlehu/Kīhei (80% contained); and Kula (50% contained)
Unsafe water advisory issued in affected wildfire areas of Lahaina and Upper Kula.
Evacuations underway in Kāʻanapali (6:37 p.m., Aug. 11)
DOH advises caution for residents returning to West Maui area
Still no power in West Maui – approximately 12,400 customers remain offline; 70 without power in Upcountry
Mass visitor/resident evacuations out of West Maui continue
14,000 departed Maui on Wednesday; Another 14,900 departed on Thursday
Refuse service resumes in West Maui on Aug. 11
Six shelters open
Puʻukoliʻi Station has fuel distribution today (Aug. 11)
Disaster assistance: If you are impacted by the fires, visit DisasterAssistance.gov, call 800-621-FEMA (3362) or download the FEMA App for more information.
Below are updates, which are posted as they become available.

Pacific Disaster Center and FEMA release Fire Damage Assessment Maps
1:57 a.m., Aug. 12, 2023

The Pacific Disaster Center and the Federal Emergency Management Agency released damage assessment maps from multiple wildfires in Maui County. 

ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW AD
According to PDC, as of Aug. 11, 2023, damage assessments related to the Lahaina Fire resulted in an estimated total of 2,719 structures exposed; 2,207 structures damaged or destroyed; and 2,170 acres burned. 86% of buildings exposed to the fire were classified as residential. 

The new information far exceeds the the 270 structures which had been reported as damaged or destroyed in initial estimates.


Geospatial Damage Assessment Summary. Hawaiʻi. RESOURCES / Pacific Disaster Center and the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

PDC: Exposure Kula Fire, Maui County, Hawaiʻi, Aug. 11, 2023. RESOURCES / Pacific Disaster Center and the Federal Emergency Management Agency

Maui Wildfires Overnight Update
Update: 2:05 a.m., Sat. Aug. 12, 2023

Firefighters continue working to extinguish flare-ups and contain fires in Lahaina, Pūlehu/Kīhei  and Upcountry Maui.

The number of fatalities is now confirmed at 80.

ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW AD
New damage assessment maps from multiple wildfires in Maui County were released by the Pacific Disaster Center and the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

According to PDC, as of Aug. 11, 2023, damage assessments related to the Lahaina Fire resulted in an estimated total of 2,719 structures exposed; 2,207 structures damaged or destroyed; and 2,170 acres burned. 86% of buildings exposed to the fire were classified as residential. 

The new information far exceeds the 270 structures which had been reported as damaged or destroyed in initial estimates. The estimated cost to rebuild in Lahaina is projected at $5.52 billion. 

In Kula, 544 structures were exposed, 678 acres burned, and the estimated cost to rebuild is $434 million, according to the maps.

A Kāʻanapali fire reported above Puʻukoliʻi at 6:10 p.m. Friday was reported to be 100 percent contained before 8:30 p.m. The fire is in the area where a county fueling station was positioned Friday to distribute an estimated 3,000 gallons of gas and 500 gallons of diesel for an estimated 400 vehicles that were lined up before the operation began. No fuel will be distributed Saturday.

ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW AD
Police are restricting access into West Maui through both Māʻalaea and Waiheʻe. Honoapiʻilani Highway is open for vehicles leaving Lahaina. The burned historic Lahaina town area remains barricaded, with people warned to stay out of the area due to hazards including toxic particles from smoldering areas. Wearing a mask and gloves is advised.

Volunteers are distributing food, water and other supplies at Nāpili Plaza.

Food, water, toiletries, canned goods, diapers, baby formula, clothing and pet food will be distributed from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday at Lahaina Gateway Center.

Donations of non-perishable food, bottled water and hygiene items will be accepted from 8 a.m. to 6 pm. Saturday at the War Memorial Complex field in Wailuku. No clothing is being accepted.

A Family Assistance Center for family members who are looking for information about loved ones who are unaccounted for will be open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Saturday and Sunday at Kahului Community Center.

The county Department of Transportation is coordinating buses to transport people staying at emergency shelters to the county Department of Motor Vehicles and Licensing, which will be open for special hours from 8 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Saturday so shelter occupants can have their driver’s licenses and state identification cards reissued. Fees will be waived. County are volunteering to work to open the department.

On Friday, a total of 1,418 people were emergency evacuation shelters at War Memorial Gymnasium, Hannibal Tavares Community Center, Maui High School, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Maui Lani, Kings Cathedral Church and Grace Bible Church.

For organizations and individuals wishing to offer services or donations to aid in the county rescue and relief efforts, an online tool is available. Information can be provided at https://tinyurl.com/mauireliefsurvey to be used to help organize and deploy resources.

Limited cellphone service is now available in West Maui. West Maui residents are encouraged to limit phone calls and video streaming services in order to free up bandwidth with telecommunication providers. Cellphone users are reminded to text, rather than call so everyone can share the limited resources.


Lahaina fires evening update
Update: 9:30 p.m., Aug. 11, 2023

Firefighters continue working to extinguish flare-ups and contain fires in Lahaina, Pūlehu/Kīhei and Upcountry Maui. 

The number of fatalities is at 80.

A Kāʻanapali fire reported above Puukolii at 6:10 p.m. Friday was reported to be 100% contained before 8:30 p.m. The fire is in the area where a county fueling station was positioned Friday to distribute an estimated 3,000 gallons of gas and 500 gallons of diesel for an estimated 400 vehicles that were lined up before the operation began. No fuel will be distributed Saturday.

Police are restricting access into West Maui through both Māʻalaea and Waihe’e. Honoapiʻilani Highway is open for vehicles leaving Lahaina. The burned historic Lahaina town area remains barricaded, with people warned to stay out of the area due to hazards including toxic particles from smoldering areas. Wearing a mask and gloves is advised.

Volunteers are distributing food, water and other supplies at Nāpili Plaza.

Food, water, toiletries, canned goods, diapers, baby formula, clothing and pet food will be distributed from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday at Lahaina Gateway Center.

Donations of non-perishable food, bottled water and hygiene items will be accepted from 8 a.m. to 6 pm. Saturday at the War Memorial Complex field in Wailuku. No clothing is being accepted.

A Family Assistance Center for family members who are looking for information about loved ones who are unaccounted for will be open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Saturday and Sunday at Kahului Community Center.

The county Department of Transportation is coordinating buses to transport people staying at emergency shelters to the county Department of Motor Vehicles and Licensing, which will be open for special hours from 8 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Saturday so shelter occupants can have their driver’s licenses and state identification cards reissued. Fees will be waived.

On Friday, a total of 1,418 people were at emergency evacuation shelters at War Memorial Gymnasium, Hannibal Tavares Community Center, Maui High School, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Maui Lani, Kings Cathedral Church and Grace Bible Church.

Limited cellphone service is now available in West Maui. Cellphone users are reminded to text, rather than call so everyone can share the limited resources.

For organizations and individuals wishing to offer services or donations to aid in the county rescue and relief efforts, an online tool is available. Information can be provided at https://tinyurl.com/mauireliefsurvey to be used to help organize and deploy resources.


Kāʻanapali fire is now 80% under control
Update: 9:03 p.m., Aug. 11, 2023

A fire that resulted in evacuations earlier this evening in the Kāʻanapali area of West Maui is now 80% contained as of 9 p.m. Authorities say there are no further fire related evacuations being conducted at this time.

Previous post re: evacuations
Update: 6:37 p.m., Aug. 11, 2023

As of this posting, there is an activefire in West Maui, residents in the Kāʻanapali are currently being evacuated.

At this time, there are no restrictions to exit the west side. Our priority is to ensure the safety of the community and first responders. We will allow entrance once it is safe to do so.

Earlier, traffic was halted due to individuals who went over barricades and closed-off areas and entered restricted, dangerous, active investigation scenes.

No unauthorized personnel is allowed in the burnt-out disaster zone. Violators will be removed from the area and may face arrest.


Hawaiian Electric restores power to parts of Nāpili, Puʻukoliʻi, Māhinahina
Update: 6:31 p.m. Aug. 11

Hawaiian Electric has restored power to one of three main transmission lines serving West Maui and restored service to some customers in Nāpili, Puʻukoliʻi, and Māhinahina where essential public services, such as water pumps, and first responder facilities are located.

Crews are continuing work to restore remaining pockets in these areas and restoring additional essential public services and facilities serving first responders in the Kapalua area. The number of customers restored is still relatively small and the aim is for additional circuits to be brought online tonight and this weekend.

Restoring transmission lines is an essential first step in the restoration process. Transmission lines are the backbone of the electric system, bringing electricity from generating stations to neighborhoods. From there, substations and neighborhood circuits need to be repaired to restore service to customers.

Hawaiian Electric is currently focusing on:

Upcountry: Restoring remaining pockets of customers, where an estimated 70 customers remain out of power.
Advising customers in other areas of West Maui without power to prepare for extended outages that could last several weeks. Crews are continuing to conduct additional damage assessments by helicopter in the air and on the ground and starting restoration repairs in areas that are safe and accessible.
Reminding everyone to exercise caution as certain areas are brought back online, to stay away from downed power lines – at least 30 feet or more (at least two car lengths). If you see a downed power line, assume it is energized and dangerous. Report downed lines immediately by calling Hawaiian Electric’s Maui Trouble Line at 808-871-7777.
About 300 Hawaiian Electric employees and contractors from Maui, O‘ahu, Hawai‘i Island, Molokaʻi and Lāna‘i are working on the massive damage assessment, repair and restoration effort. The company’s Incident Management Team continues to coordinate closely with Hawai‘i’s Emergency Management Agency and other emergency response organizations.

Updates are also available at hawaiianelectric.com/windstormresponse.


Upcountry, South and Central Maui public school campuses to begin phased reopenings next week; West Maui schools to remain closed
Update: 5 p.m., Aug. 11, 2023

Most public schools in Upcountry, South and Central Maui will begin phased reopenings during the week of Aug. 14-17, 2023, beginning with school staff reporting to campuses. (Friday, Aug. 18 is a state holiday.)

With the exception of King Kekaulike High School, all Upcountry, South and Central Maui school staff will return to campuses on Monday, Aug.14. Students will be welcomed to school on Wednesday, Aug. 16, though Maui High’s student start date will be announced next week. This staggered schedule will allow school teams time to assess damage and staffing capacity to ensure a safe reopening. 

King Kekaulike High School facilities are still being assessed and will remain closed to both students and staff until the campus can be fully evaluated. Maui High will welcome staff back to campus on Monday, Aug. 14, though students’ start date is pending the status of the evacuation shelter. The full Story including information on West Maui schools is posted HERE.


Honoapiʻilani Closed in Both Directions
Update: 4 p.m., Aug. 11, 2023

Effective Immediately, the road to Lahaina, via Honoapiʻilani Highway is closed in both directions.

Police had reports that many people were parking on the Lahaina Bypass and walking into the areas makai of the bypass, which is locked down due to hazardous conditions and biohazards. This zone has been declared as a site for authorized personnel area only. Police say those caught within this zone will be escorted out and may be arrested.

“This area is an active police scene, and we need to preserve the dignity of lives lost and respect their surviving family.  Unauthorized entry to these areas increases danger to themselves and delays our operations, as MPD and National Guard personnel must stop their searching efforts and escort individuals out,” police said.

Maui police spokesperson Alana Pico said people continued to disobey the orders, and entry to Lahaina was effectively closed.  The area is currently open to emergency personnel only.

Wildfire afternoon update
Update: 3:40 p.m., Aug. 11, 2023

The Lahaina fire is 85% contained. The Pūlehu/Kihei fire is 80% contained. The Upcountry Maui fire is 50% contained. Firefighters continue battling flare-ups in all three fires.
The number of fatalities is confirmed at 67, becoming the deadliest natural disaster in Hawaiʻi history.
Federal Emergency Management Agency Urban Search and Rescue Team, with expertise in human remains, are being deployed to Maui from Arizona and Nevada. Five dogs are being utilized.
Barricades remain in place around Lahaina town, with police officers posted to keep people out of the areas. Health officials advise that burning areas are highly toxic. Inhalation of dust and other airborne particles can be a health hazard. Hot spots still exist and wearing a mask and gloves is advised.
Donations of non-perishable food, bottled water and hygiene items will be accepted through 6 p.m. today and from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Saturday at the War Memorial Complex field. No clothing is being accepted.
With additional cellular phone service becoming available in West Maui, people are reminded to text instead of making phone calls so everyone can share the limited resources.
Shuttles are operating from Kahului Airport and the three American Red Cross emergency shelters Maui High School, War Memorial Gymnasium and Hannibal Tavares Community Center to take visitors to West Maui to retrieve belongings so they can depart Maui. One member of a family is allowed on the shuttles, which are going to hotels in the Kāʻanapali and Kapalua/Nāpili areas. Visitor access is being allowed only to retrieve luggage and identification, not for staying at hotels. Those dropped off by the shuttle are being picked up an hour later and returned to the locations where they were picked up.

Unsafe water advisory issued for Upper Kula and Lahaina areas affected by wildfires
Update: 2:55 p.m., Aug. 11, 2023

The County of Maui Department of Water Supply is issuing an unsafe water alert for areas of Upper Kula and Lahaina affected by wildfires. As a precaution, customers in those areas are advised not to drink and not to boil their water. Instead of tap water, customers are advised to use only bottled water for drinking, brushing teeth, making ice and preparing food.

The advisory is in effect until further notice.

Failure to follow this advisory could result in illness, according to the department and state Department of Health. Due to the wildfires, structures were destroyed and some areas of the water system lost pressure. Those conditions may have caused harmful contaminants, including benzene and other volatile organic chemicals, to enter the water system.

Customers are advised to:

Limit the use of hot water
Limit shower and bathing time and use lukewarm water and a ventilated area
Use a dishwasher to wash dishes and use the air dry setting
Wash clothing in cold water
Avoid using clothes dryers 
Not use hot tubs or swimming pools
Not use ice from automatic ice makers
Use proper ventilation when using water indoors
For more information, call 808-270-7344.

Hawaiian Electric crews continue with damage assessments, repairs
Update: 2 p.m., Friday, Aug. 11

In continued coordination with State and County emergency response efforts, Hawaiian Electric crews today are continuing to make repairs in areas that are safe and accessible.

As part of this response effort, the company is currently focusing on:

Upcountry: Restoring remaining pockets of customers, where an estimated 70 customers remain out of power.
West Maui: Conducting additional damage assessments by helicopter and drone in the air and on the ground and starting restoration repairs in areas that are safe and accessible. Restoration will first focus on essential public services and facilities serving first responders and emergency response efforts in the areas of the Lahaina Civic Center, Mahinahina, Napili, and Kapalua. 
Advising customers in West Maui without power to prepare for extended outages that could last several weeks in some areas.
Reminding everyone to exercise caution as certain areas are brought back online, to stay away from downed power lines – at least 30 feet or more (at least two car lengths). If you see a downed power line, assume it is energized and dangerous. Report downed lines immediately by calling Hawaiian Electric’s Maui Trouble Line at 808-871-7777.
Reminding if using a portable generator, carefully follow instructions in the manufacturer’s manual, for your safety and the safety of Hawaiian Electric employees working to restore electricity to the distribution system. Don’t plug household electrical outlets to the generator. Instead, plug your equipment or appliance directly into the generator. Make sure the wattage requirements of the appliance don’t exceed the capacity of your generator or extension cord. Also, be sure to provide adequate ventilation for exhaust and cooling. And store reserve fuel in a safe place away from the generator or any other equipment that might ignite the fuel; use containers designed for fuel storage.
“We understand electricity plays an essential role in our community’s recovery, and we are working as quickly as possible and prioritizing restoration in areas that our crews can safely access,” said Shayna Decker, Hawaiian Electric spokesperson. “We thank our customers for their patience and recognize the difficulty of enduring prolonged outages.”

Additional crews and resources from O‘ahu, Hawai‘i Island, Molokaʻi and Lāna‘i have been deployed to assist with massive response efforts, and the company’s Incident Management Team continues to coordinate closely with Hawai‘i’s Emergency Management Agency and other emergency response organizations. 

Updates are also available at hawaiianelectric.com/windstormresponse


Lahaina wildfire aftermath. PC: DLNR Hawaiʻi (8.11.23)
DOH Advises Caution for Residents Returning to West Maui Area
Update: 1:57 p.m., Aug. 11, 2023

The Hawaiʻi State Department of Health urges caution for residents and business owners who are being allowed to return to their properties in the Lahaina area. DOH recommends the following tips for those returning to the area.

Keep children away – children should not help with clean-up efforts and should not play in areas with ash or debris.
Protect yourself – People should wear protective face masks, goggles, gloves, longsleeves, pants, socks and closed-toed shoes (to avoid skin contact with ash).
Protect others – We recommend changing clothes and showering before being in contact with sensitive groups like children, pregnant people, people with asthma or COPD, and kūpuna.
Avoid heat stress – Be careful of over-exhaustion. Stay hydrated, take breaks, and consider bringing shade.
Masks – Cloth masks only partially protect you from ash. Instead, DOH recommends wearing a tight-fitting respirator mask – look for the words NIOSH or N95 printed on the mask. N95 masks are best but paint, dust, and surgical masks can also be used during clean-up.
Ash – Ash may cause irritation of the skin, nose, and throat, and may cause coughing. Ash and dust (particularly from burned buildings) may contain toxic and cancer-causing chemicals including asbestos, arsenic, and lead. 
Ash pits – Ash pits are holes full of hot ashes, created by burned trees and stumps. Falling into ash pits or landing in them with your hands or feet can cause serious burns.
Ash clean up – Avoid washing ash into storm drains. Do not use vacuums or leaf blowers that will push more ash into the air.
Debris – Broken glass, exposed electrical wires (whether or not they are “live”), nails, wood, metal, plastics, and other solid objects commonly found in areas of fire damage can cause puncture wounds, cuts, electrical injuries, and burns from smoldering materials. Please use caution.
Propane tanks – Maintain a safe distance from any propane tank that may have been impacted by heat or fire. 
Remaining structures – Unstable buildings and structures may contain hazardous materials and could collapse and cause injury. Please check with authorities before entering any remaining structures.
Stored materials – Containers could have moved into unstable positions and be at risk for falling and causing injuries. Please approach with caution.
Salvaged items – Anything found that can be salvaged should be washed carefully with clean water and soap.
In a crisis like this, it’s also important to take care of your mental health. When people experience a disaster, they may be in shock and experience a wide range of emotions. The DOH is offering crisis mental health services and expanding hours to those experiencing emotional or psychological distress as a result of the Maui wildfires.

To receive emergency services on Maui, contact DOH at (808) 984-2150 or via email at mauiwellness@doh.hawaii.gov or in person at 121 Mahalani Street in Wailuku. Clinic hours are Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
DOH will have expanded clinic hours on August 12 and 13 to accommodate immediate needs from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
The Hawaiʻi CARES crisis line is available 24/7 by calling 808-832-3100 or 1-800-753-6879, or calling, texting, or chatting 988.
DOH will continue to coordinate with federal, state and county officials to ensure the safety of residents and visitors as they return to the affected area. 

Death toll rises to 67
Update: 1:14 p.m., Aug. 11, 2023

Maui authorities have confirmed the death toll from the Lahaina wildfire has risen to 67. Search and rescue efforts continue today in the heavily impacted area. The wildfire has become the deadliest natural disaster in Hawaiʻi’s history.


Boba Bar Pia and Paia Fish Market teamed up this morning to take community donations to Lahaina. The box truck full of supplies is part of an organized effort between Love The Sea and authorities. PC: Donovan Fayd (8.11.23)
Distribution info for Lahaina folksUpdate: 12:25 p.m., Aug. 11, 2023

We have word from our colleagues on the ground that an organized distribution point is currently set up at Nāpili Market where people in need can get supplies. 

Smaller supply points are set up today at a Citizen Church above Kahana and the Post Office near the Lahaina Civic Center.  Another organized distribution point was being set up around mid-day at the Lahaina Gateway center with various supplies and necessities. 

Small rest sanctuary in Puʻunēnē
3:03 p.m, Aug. 11, 2023

A Small Rest Sanctuary in Kahului at Kamaliʻi Park between Kuʻula and Aiai Street off Puʻunēnē Ave. has been set up. A collection of faith-based individuals set up supplies and a rest spot for those looking for a smaller place to refresh and relax.

Online tool available to offer services and donations for Lahaina wildfire relief
Update: 1:09 p.m., Aug. 11, 2023

An online tool is available for organizations and individuals wishing to offer services or donations to aid in the County of Maui’s rescue and relief efforts for the Lahaina wildfire. Information provided at https://tinyurl.com/mauireliefsurvey will be used to help organize and deploy resources in the relief effort.

UPDATE/OPEN: Pedestrian fatality on Kūihelani
Posted: 4 p.m., 12:47 p.m., Aug. 11, 2023

Kūihelani Highway is now open as of 4 p.m. It was closed earlier this afternoon from Honoapiʻilani Highway to Waikō Road due to a fatal motor vehicle accident involving a pedestrian.

Kaiser Permanente Mobile Health Vehicle Available on Maui Starting Saturday
Update: 1:25 p.m., Aug. 11, 2023

Kaiser Permanente announced it will have a Mobile Health Vehicle available on Maui starting this weekend. Starting Saturday, Aug. 12 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Kaiser Permanente’s Mobile Health Vehicle will provide first aid at the Maui War Memorial Gym to members and non-members at no cost.  

For prescription refills, members can visit kp.org/pharmacy or call 808-643-7979. Pharmacy locations at our Maui Lani or Wailuku medical offices.

Maui Lani Medical Office pharmacy: Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Wailuku Medical Office pharmacy: Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to noon and 1 to 5 p.m. (Closed from noon to 1 p.m.)
We are taking immediate action to minimize any impact on our members’ health care. Patient care services have been redirected to virtual platforms and to our Maui Lani and Wailuku Medical Offices during this time. 

As our community continues to come to grips with the emotional impact of this disaster, Kaiser Permanente is offering critical mental health and addiction services and resources. Members do not need a referral to access behavioral health care at Kaiser Permanente.


BREAKING: 9 a.m., Aug. 11, 2023

ACCESS TO WEST MAUI: Access to Lahaina through Māʻalaea will reopen to residents of West Maui at noon today (Friday, Aug. 11, 2023). Motorists need to show proof of residency, and visitors must show proof of a hotel reservation.

CURFEW IMPLEMENTED: A curfew will be in place from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. daily in Historic Lahaina Town and affected areas. That means that access through Māʻalaea to get to Lahaina will be closed between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m., with no access into the restricted zone of Lahaina Town will be in effect until hazardous conditions improve.

SECURING PERIMETER: The County of Maui will be working to secure the heavily impacted area of Lahaina Town. The area is being protected so that search crews looking for victims can continue to work in the area and because the fire has caused unsafe conditions. No unauthorized public access will be allowed beyond barricaded areas.

NO POWER/NO WATER: West Maui remains without power and water, and search crews continue efforts in the Lahaina town area for victims of the brush fire.


Fuel Distribution at Puʻukoliʻi Station
Update:10:23 a.m., Aug. 11, 2023

The County of Maui is currently setting up a fuel distribution station at the Puʻukoliʻi Train Station in Kāʻanapali today, Aug. 11.

This fuel is distributed while this current supply lasts. There is no word on how often the distribution will take place, but authorities are aware of the demand.

A similar distribution event was held on Thursday until 5 p.m, the public is advised that there is a heavy demand and limited resources at this time.  

The County of Maui is also working to get fuel for emergency generators and first responders, as well as hotels so that they can get their generators filled and running. 

Lahaina Residents Can Pick Up Their Mail at Wailuku Post Office
Temporary Delivery Site for Those Impacted by West Maui Fires
Update: 11:03 a.m., Aug. 11, 2023

Effective immediately, mail service for customers of the Lahaina Main Post Office and Lahaina Downtown Post Office will be temporarily relocated to the Wailuku Post Office, as detailed below.

Customers normally served by the Lahaina Main and Lahaina Downtown Post Offices should temporarily pick up their mail at the dutch door in the lobby of the Wailuku Post Office located at 250 Imi Kala Street, Wailuku 96793. 
Hours for pick up are 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. weekdays and Saturdays and 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. on Sundays.
Customers must present a photo ID for mail pick-up.
In order to ensure that expected packages are available for pickup, customers are advised to confirm via tracking that the item in question has arrived at the local post office.
In addition to delivering mail and packages, USPS personnel at the Wailuku Post Office will be available to assist affected Lahaina customers with the process of forwarding their mail and/or changing their mailing addresses.

USPS will make every effort to resume operations in Lahaina after west Maui roads become accessible.

Employee Assistance Fund for Maui Health healthcare heroes
Update: 11:31 a.m., Aug. 11, 2023

The Maui Health Foundation has set up an Employee Assistance Fund to provide financial support to those impacted by the wildfires to purchase immediate needs such as toiletries, medication, clothes, food, and temporary housing.

As many as 19 Maui Health personnel have been impacted by the wildfires, and 15 have suffered a complete loss of their homes.

Maui Health Foundation asks for the publicʻs kōkua (help) at this time to care for those who have cared for the community when they were needed the most. All funds will go directly to supporting Maui Health personnel. More details HERE.

Public Assistance Request:
7:53 a.m, Aug. 11, 2023

Many within our community have asked what assistance they can offer public safety personnel. Right now, Maui police report three things are needed:

Avoid unnecessary travel on our roadways, but if you must go out, follow the speed limit, use your seat belt, don’t use your cell phone while driving, and don’t drive intoxicated. Avoid beaches that don’t have designated ocean safety personnel, and don’t stray from marked paths while hiking.
Patience. Public safety personnel – including first-line responders (dispatchers, fire, medic, police, and assisting agencies), administrative support staff, and executive staff have been working non-stop since the wildfires began. We understand the public’s desire to return to their homes, connect with loved ones, or help those affected. Before that can happen, we need to ensure the safety of first responders and other agencies working tirelessly to get utilities restored and roadways cleared.
Reputable information: Please be sure the information you are receiving is coming from reputable sources, such as the County of Maui’s Mayor’s Office, MEMA, MPD, and MFD.
A Cup of Cold Water seeks volunteers, donations for Mauiʻs wildfire-affected families
Update: 10:58 a.m., Aug. 11, 2023

A Cup of Cold Water is urgently seeking volunteers and donations to aid families impacted by Mauiʻs devastating wildfires. Countless families are suddenly in the unsheltered community on Maui because they lost their homes and belongings in the fires. 

Volunteer: Run leaders (drivers), run riders (distribution from van), supply room help (intake and packaging), and shoppers (to stock supply room) are needed.

A Cup of Cold Water President, Cathy Paxton-Haines, is coordinating the effort. Those interested in a volunteer role can call Cathy at 808-283-1952 or send an email to cathyphaines@gmail.com

Full report HERE.

Maui Sunday Market extends helping hand to fire evacuees through two donation drop-offs
Update: 10:03 a.m., Aug. 11, 2023

In response to the recent wildfires that have impacted numerous families in the Maui community, the Maui Sunday Market will be hosting a two donation drop-off events on Sundays, Aug. 13 and Aug. 20, from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the Kahului Shopping Center parking lot.

During these designated times, the Maui Sunday Market invites the community to join hands in offering assistance to fire evacuees by donating essential items that can help alleviate their immediate needs. The following items will be accepted:

Non-perishable food items
Bottled water
Personal hygiene products
Baby diapers, food, and formula
Bedding essentials such as sheets, pillows, blankets, and towels
Pet food, toys, supplies, pop-up kennels
Clean clothing for adults, children, and infants
Toys in new or gently used condition
Gift cards
Teresa Ferreira, the event coordinator of Maui Sunday Market, expressed her sentiments about the initiative, saying, “The recent Maui wildfires have posed immense challenges for many of our island’s families. Our extended Maui Sunday Market ‘ohana truly cares, and we feel a deep sense of gratitude for the opportunity to stand together as a community, reaching out to those in need with open hearts.”

The Maui Sunday Market is presented by Maui Food Technology Center. The event is supported by the County of Maui Office of Economic Development and sponsored by Alexander & Baldwin, Inc.  Event admission and parking is free.

For more information about the Maui Sunday Market, please visit www.MauiSundayMarket.com.


PC: Donovan Fayd (8.10.23)
Council committee to discuss emergency housing and shelter for residents displaced by fires
Update: 8:19 a.m., Aug. 11, 2023

Councilmember and Presiding Officer Pro Tempore Tasha Kama (Kahului residency district) today announced that the Council’s Housing and Land Use (HLU) committee will meet at 9 a.m. on Wednesday, Aug. 16, 2023 to address emergency housing and shelter for residents displaced by the recent fires.

“This is an unprecedented disaster the likes of which our community has never seen, and one which I hope we never see again,” HLU Chair Kama said. “Even as Police are doing their heart-wrenching but important work of search and recovery, we must move quickly to gauge the need and provide housing for our displaced residents.

“My heart goes out to all the families who lost loved ones, or who are still trying urgently to locate missing family members and friends. Please know that we will continue to work in partnership with the Mayor, his administration and local, State and community agencies as well as national organizations to help with recovery and response efforts in these critical first few days and beyond. This is a time when we must join hands to lift our people in moving forward- together.” Full report HERE.

Gov. discusses plans for W Maui Curfew; Access into W Maui still limited to first responders
Update: 7:45 a.m., Friday, Aug. 11, 2023

Access into West Maui via the Honoapiilani Highway is still limited this morning to first responders.  Kahekili Hwy is open to residents of Kahakuloa with ID and for people evacuating Lahaina.

Governor Josh Green spoke with Hawaii News Now this morning and said the County of Maui is discussing a curfew plan for the West Maui area that will likely be at around 9 or 10 p.m.   That plan is still being worked out and details will be released by County officials once plans are solidified.  

According to Gov. Green about 30% of the firefighters who are working, suffered losses to their own homes.  He said health care and dialysis facilities in Lahaina were incinerated.  We have reports that some of those patients have been accommodated elsewhere. 

There were at least 1100 people at a single shelter in Central Maui.  A total of six shelters are available for evacuees of affected areas.  

The Governor is looking to ask for some 2,000 visitor hotel rooms to help accommodate displaced individuals.  There’s also talks to utilize Air BNB to help curtail the need for temporary housing.  

There is still no water or power in West Maui at this time.  

Overnight updates
Update: 2:45 a.m., Friday, Aug. 11, 2023

Firefighters continued working overnight to extinguish flare-ups and contain fires in Lahaina, Pūlehu/Kīhei and Upcountry Maui. The firefighting effort was bolstered by 21 firefighters from the Honolulu Fire Department, seven supervisory personnel and four vehicles. A nine-member search-and-rescue team also arrived on island.

Power was restored to all Upcountry water pumping stations today, water will be restored after lines are flushed.

County refuse collection in West Maui will resume today, Friday, Aug. 11.

Six emergency shelters are open. 

Wailuku: War Memorial Gymnasium. 
Pukalani: Hannibal Tavares Community Center
Kahului: Maui High School, King’s Cathedral Church, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Maui Lani and Grace Bible Church
Visitors wanting to leave Maui are asked to book a flight with an airline. Travelers can book flights to Honolulu, then continue on another flight to the Mainland.

A Maui Oil tanker parked on the side of the road in North Kāʻanapali provided fuel for West Maui residents from noon to 5:30 p.m., pumped 370 gallons of diesel and 2,198 gallons of gas.

Food, water, supplies and clothing will be distributed to residents from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Friday at the Ritz-Carlton, Kapalua. A limited supply of baby products will also be given out.

A Federal Emergency Management Area search-and-rescue team with the Nevada Task Force arrived last night with two K-9 cadaver dogs.

Donations of non-perishable food, bottled water, hygiene items and blankets are being accepted from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Friday at the War Memorial Complex. Also needed are slippers, menʻs underwear, clothing, pillows, large duffel bags and storage containers.

Some cellphone service was available in West Maui today. If you have a cell signal and cannot make a call, try texting instead.

Twenty-five buses operating a shuttle service Thursday transported more than 1,200 visitors from Kāʻanapali hotel areas to Kahului Airport. On Thursday, 14,900 visitors left on flights departing Maui.


Road Closure at Māʻalaea. PC: Donovan Fayd (8.10.23)
West Maui Road Update – per County of Maui
Update: 6:24 a.m., Aug. 11, 2023

Honoapiʻilani Highway is closed to traffic going north into Lahaina.

Honoapiʻilani Highway is closed to traffic going north into Lahaina, Only traffic evacuating Lahaina is allowed. Kahekili Hwy is open to residents of Kahakuloa with ID and for people evacuating Lahaina.


PC: Office of the Governor (8.10.23)
SBA Administrator to travel to Maui, Visit small businesses and communities impacted by wildfires
Update: 6:16 a.m., Aug. 11, 2023

US Small Business Administration Administrator Isabella Casillas Guzman will join FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell and US Fire Administrator Dr. Lori Moore-Merrell on Maui today to visit communities impacted by the recent wildfires and meet with state and local officials regarding ongoing recovery efforts. She will also meet with local small business owners and highlight the SBA’s disaster recovery and resilience operation deployed to assist those affected. More HERE.


Governor Josh Green visits Lahaina Town as rescue and recovery efforts are underway due to a delay wildfire. PC: Office of the Governor. (8.10.23)
55 fatalities confirmed amid active Lahaina fire
Update: 9:10 p.m., Thursday, Aug. 10, 2023

As firefighting efforts continue, two additional fatalities have been confirmed this evening amid the active Lahaina fire. This brings the death toll to 55 people. Thirty-six fatalities were confirmed as of Wednesday, Aug. 9, 2023. Another 17 were confirmed midday today, Aug. 10, 2023. Two were added by end of day today.

Governor Josh Green, M.D., Mayor Bissen, U.S. Senator Brian Schatz, Major General Kenneth Hara, and various federal and county government officials joined together on Maui to provide a coordinated update on the status of Maui’s damage and ongoing efforts to support those affected from the Maui wildfires. The event was livestreamed on Maui Now’s Facebook page and sought to share the latest news after an on the ground assessment of the affected areas.

“What we saw today was likely the largest natural disaster in Hawai‘i state history,” said Governor Green. “It’s going to take a great deal of time to recover from this, but we have the support from every level of government all the way up to the federal level, especially given President Biden’s approval of my disaster declaration request today. It will be a tremendous effort, but we will come together as a community and begin working toward rebuilding from this tragedy.”


Government officials joined together on Maui to provide a coordinated update on the status of Maui’s damage and ongoing efforts to support those affected from the Maui wildfires. PC: Office of Governor Josh Green (8.10.23)
Federal Disaster Assistance
Update: 8 p.m., Aug. 10, 2023

The Federal designation of the disaster has opened up FEMA resources. Here is the contact information for families:

Disaster assistance: If you are impacted by the fires in Hawaiʻi, visit DisasterAssistance.gov, call 800-621-FEMA (3362) or download the FEMA App for more information on available resources.

Thousands of travelers are attempting leave Maui as crews continue to battle wildfires across the island. Kahului Airport. PC: Kalani Prince (8.9.23)
Airlines add more flights on Friday, for evacuees fleeing Maui
Update: 9:44 p.m., Aug. 10, 2023

The Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation has announced additional flights out of Kahului, Maui on Friday, Aug. 11, to support the ongoing evacuation of West Maui. There are additional flights added on Hawaiian and Southwest Airlines to Honolulu from Kahului.

Seats are available on scheduled departures from noon through 9:45 p.m. If you were unable to get a flight out before then, please try again. There is an Emergency Assistance Center at the Hawaiʻi Convention Center in Honolulu offering meals, water, and help to booking lodging and travel for evacuees.

Extra Flights / Times / Destination / Seats
WN8931 / 12:10 p.m. / HNL / Available
WN8933 / 3:25 p.m. / HNL / Available
WN8935 / 6:40 p.m. / HNL / Available
HA1103 / 4:09 p.m. / HNL / Available
HA1104 / 6:35 p.m. / HNL / Available
HA1101 / 7:25 p.m. / HNL / Available
Scheduled Flight / Time / Destination / Seats
HA505 / 7:15 p.m. / HNL / Available
HA535 / 7:48 p.m. / HNL / Available
HA545 / 8:15 p.m. / HNL / Available
HA565 / 8:45 p.m. / HNL / Available
HA575 / 9:45  p.m. / HNL / Available

County of Maui to air daily public updates on Maui radio stations
Update: 9:06 p.m., Aut. 10, 2023

Starting Friday, Aug. 11, 2023, radio stations on Maui will air County of Maui updates on the Lahaina wildfire incident at 9 a.m., noon and 3 p.m.

Radio updates will supplement information posted on the county’s website, Facebook and Instagram pages.

Maui radio stations include the following:

Pacific Media Group on KPOA FM 92.9 (west side) / FM 93.5; KJKS FM 99.3 (west side) / FM 99.9 FM; KJMD FM 107.1 (west side) / FM 98.3; KHLI FM 101.7 (west side) / FM 92.5; KMVI AM 900 / FM 102.5; and KNUI AM 550 / FM 106.1
KAOI Radio Group on 1110 AM / 96.7 FM
KPMW FM 105.5
Akaku’s KAKU 88.5
West Maui public school campuses to remain closed through next week
Update: Aug. 10, 2023

HIDOE’s four public school campuses in Lāhainā will remain shut down for an additional week, through Friday, Aug. 18.

Lahainaluna High
Lāhainā Intermediate
Princess Nāhi‘ena‘ena Elementary
King Kamehameha III Elementary
While the Department is working to solidify next steps for what school operations will look like for West Maui, we are also making sure all students, staff and families are accounted for. The extended closures are also aimed at allowing students, families and staff to care for themselves and loved ones and start to reestablish their bearings during this stressful and devastating time.

Damage assessments of the Lāhainā campuses are pending safe access to the sites. A HIDOE representative was able to confirm the severe fire and structural damage to King Kamehameha III Elementary on Front Street in Lāhainā on Thursday. The Department is working with emergency response officials to gain access to the area as soon as safely possible to assess the scope and degree of damage to each of the Lahaina schools.

For all other Maui public schools, an update on reopening plans will be made tomorrow. Schools in Upcountry, South and Central Maui will have phased reopening plans to first bring back staff, followed by students. This will give school teams time to assess damage and capacity to welcome students back safely.

In response to the outpouring of generosity and support toward the recovery of our West Maui school communities, the Department is partnering with the Public Schools of Hawai‘i Foundation to support our impacted school communities. The most immediate need and request from our Maui schools is for monetary donations that can provide direct support for response efforts. Learn more at bit.ly/HelpMauiSchools.


Video footage from today (8.10.23) shows the view on the ground from the Lahaina Bypass and Keawe Street; and driving southbound into Lahaina. VC: DONOVAN FAYD for Maui Now (8.10.23)

State, local and federal authorities provided an update on the Maui wildfires during a press briefing this afternoon. Police Chief John Pelliteir described the damage as a scar on the face of Maui. He called for patience and prayer as responders work. Fire Chief Brad Ventura provided us with an update on the latest firefighting efforts across Maui. The full press conference is available HERE.
Press briefing on Lahaina Wildfire
Update: 3:30 p.m., Aug. 10, 2023

State, local and federal authorities provided an update on the Maui wildfires during a press briefing this afternoon.  Governor Josh Green said the funding for the disaster will be in the billions of dollars, and it will take many years to rebuild. He also called the current situation possibly the largest natural disaster in Hawaiʻi history.  

While 53 deaths have already been confirmed, more are expected and search and recovery continues.   Mayor Bissen said the current phase is focused on saving lives and gaining fire containment.

Officials are looking to eventually house thousands of displaced residents utilizing 2,000 rooms.

Police Chief John Pelliteir described the damage as a scar on the face of Maui. He called for patience and prayer as responders work. According to police traffic into West Maui is limited to first responders.  

Fire Chief Brad Ventura provided us with an update on the latest firefighting efforts, which is not only limited to Lahaina Town, but other wildfires that are burning in other parts of the island.


DONATIONS BEING DELIVERED INTO WEST MAUI: Aug. 10, 2023; There are multiple drop off and pick up efforts happening on the West Side in an effort to get supplies to people in need. This video from today (8.10.23) shows a group helping take in supplies donated and transported by Love The Sea and Ainaʻs Tractor Service. VC: Donovan Fayd (8.10.23)

Wildfire aftermath on Front Street. PC: Donovan Fayd (8.9.23)
Maui JobsView All Jobs 

Walker Industries, Ltd.
Precast Concrete Laborer
Central Maui · 1 hour ago

BAYADA Behavior Analysis Maui
Registered Behavior Technician
Central Maui · 4 weeks ago
Maui Ocean Center, The Aquarium of Hawaii
Multimedia Marketing Specialist
Central Maui · 1 month ago
Looking for locally based talent?Post a Job Listing
Sponsored Content

Subscribe to our Newsletter
Stay in-the-know with daily or weeklyheadlines delivered straight to your inbox.
E-Mail Address
Related Articles
Maui wildfire updates for Aug. 10: Death toll rises…
August 10, 2023
Maui wildfire updates: Death toll rises to 36; 271…
August 8, 2023
Health Dept. issues notice of unauthorized access to…
March 9, 2023
Bottomfish restricted fishing areas now open
February 28, 2022
Limited into West Maui starts for residents at noon;…
August 11, 2023
Movement of Coffee Restricted from Maui and Hawai‘i…
November 21, 2020
Comments
This comments section is a public community forum for the purpose of free expression. Although Maui Now encourages respectful communication only, some content may be considered offensive. Please view at your own discretion.
View Comments (28)


Accessibility statementSkip to main content

Subscribe
Sign in
This coverage is no longer live

Close alert banner
Climate
Environment
Weather
Climate Solutions
Climate Lab
Green Living
Business of Climate

Survivors share how they escaped Lahaina fires
1:35
On Aug. 11, residents of Lahaina, Hawaii, described how they fled the deadly wildfires that decimated their town. (Video: The Washington Post)
Hawaii officials warn final count will take time as death toll in Maui reaches 67
Updated August 12, 2023 at 1:50 a.m. EDT|Published August 11, 2023 at 4:01 a.m. EDT
Listen
Share
Hawaii residents continued to try to find missing loved ones Friday after wildfires ripped through Maui, killing at least 67 people, with the search for victims ongoing. It could take a week or longer before Maui officials have a final death toll.  Show more
Logs indicate no emergency sirens were activated during wildfires
A final death toll could take a week to tally, governor says
‘Without a doubt, there will be more fatalities,’ governor says
Skip to end of carousel
Here's what to know:
Maui County Mayor Richard T. Bissen Jr. told NBC’s “Today” show on Friday that the death toll consists of people whose bodies have been found outdoors. Rescue teams have not yet searched inside buildings for victims, he said.
Bissen added that the strong winds that fueled the wildfires put the emergency siren system in “an impossible situation” to properly warn residents to evacuate the area.
Nearly 11,000 people remained without power on Maui as of Friday, according to PowerOutage.us.
None of the four major fires that erupted on Maui on Tuesday are fully contained, Maui County Fire Chief Bradford Ventura said. Ventura — who said the wildfire that caused widespread damage in Lahaina was 80 percent contained as of Thursday morning — cautioned that there is still “potential for rapid fire behavior.”
End of carousel

   
Skip to Main Content
SiteID
Site Tools
Share
Search...
Go to Site Search
Search
GOVERNMENT
SERVICES
COMMUNITY
BUSINESS
HOW DO I?
HomeNews Flash
News Flash
Press Releases
Posted on: August 11, 2023
67 fatalities confirmed amid active Lahaina fire
As firefighting efforts continue, 12 additional fatalities have been confirmed as of 1 p.m. today amid the active Lahaina fire. This brings the death toll to 67 people.

Thirty-six fatalities were confirmed Wednesday, Aug. 9, 2023. Another 19 were confirmed Thursday, Aug. 10, 2023.

 The Lahaina fire is not yet contained.

 No other details are available at this time.

Facebook Opens in new window
 
Twitter Opens in new window
 
Email Opens in new window
⇐Previous
Access to West Maui resumes at 12 noon today
Next⇒
Potable water tanker locations for Upcountry and West Maui
Other News in Press Releases
West Maui Access Placard (Update)
Posted on: August 14, 2023
8/14 County of Maui Wildfire Disaster Update as of 9:20 a.m.
Posted on: August 14, 2023
Unsafe water advisory for Upper Kula and Lahaina areas includes new maps
Posted on: August 13, 2023
19 homes destroyed so far in Upcountry/Kula wildfire
Posted on: August 13, 2023
Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry Maui Fires, Update No. 22
Posted on: August 12, 2023
Free shuttle for Central Maui shelters starts Sunday
Posted on: August 12, 2023
Pacific Disaster Center and the Federal Emergency Management Agency releases Fire Damage
Posted on: August 12, 2023
Family Assistance Center open today for those seeking information about loved ones
Posted on: August 10, 2023
Lahaina fires update, 9 p.m.
Posted on: August 11, 2023
8/14 COUNTY OF MAUI WILDFIRE DISASTER UPDATE AS OF 9:45 P.M.
Posted on: August 13, 2023
Unsafe water advisory issued for Upper Kula and Lahaina areas affected by wildfires
Posted on: August 11, 2023
Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry Maui Fires Combined Update, 3 p.m.
Posted on: August 11, 2023
8/13 COUNTY OF MAUI WILDFIRES UPDATE AS OF 3 P.M.
Posted on: August 13, 2023
Access to West Maui resumes at 12 noon today
Posted on: August 11, 2023
Potable water tanker locations for Upcountry and West Maui
Posted on: August 9, 2023
Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry Maui Fires Update No. 21, 2 p.m.
Posted on: August 12, 2023
Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry Maui Fires Update No. 20, 2:05 a.m.
Posted on: August 12, 2023
Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry Maui Fires Update No. 18, 2:45 a.m.
Posted on: August 11, 2023
Lahaina fire reported 80 percent contained, progress reported in firefighting effort
Posted on: August 10, 2023
Residents and visitors in West Maui impacted by fire to be transported to Kahului Airport or shelter
Posted on: August 10, 2023
Two additional shelters opened in Central Maui
Posted on: August 10, 2023
Mayor Bissen offers a public message in light of recent tragedies
Posted on: August 10, 2023
55 fatalities confirmed amid active Lahaina fire
Posted on: August 10, 2023
53 fatalities confirmed amid active Lahaina fire
Posted on: August 10, 2023
As Lahaina firefighting continues, 36 total fatalities have been discovered
Posted on: August 9, 2023
Kula customers may experience low to no water pressure
Posted on: August 9, 2023
Donations for Maui residents affected by fires being accepted online
Posted on: August 9, 2023
West Maui visitors advised to leave Lahaina and Maui; airlines reporting open flights
Posted on: August 9, 2023
Search and rescue team bolsters efforts in Lahaina
Posted on: August 9, 2023
Six fatalities discovered today amid active Lahaina fire
Posted on: August 9, 2023
War Memorial Complex open today and Thursday as dropoff site for emergency shelter donations
Posted on: August 9, 2023
Firefighting effort continuing in West Maui, Pulehu and Upcountry
Posted on: August 9, 2023
Maui Bus & Human Service Transportation services suspension
Posted on: August 9, 2023Hokiokio Place
Lahaina and Upcountry Maui Fires Combined Update No. 3, 12:40 p.m.
Posted on: August 9, 2023
911 service in West Maui is not available.
Posted on: August 9, 2023
Mayor Bissen issues emergency proclamation in response to fires
Posted on: August 8, 2023
Multiple evacuations in place for Lahaina and Upcountry Maui fires
Posted on: August 8, 2023
Lahaina fire flareup forces Lahaina Bypass road closure; shelter in place encouraged
Posted on: August 8, 2023
Fire Department calling for immediate evacuation of Kulalani Drive and Circle subdivision
Posted on: August 8, 2023
Fire Department advising immediate proactive evacuation of residents of Pi`iholo and Olinda roads
Posted on: August 8, 2023
Public is reminded to exercise caution due to downed power lines and trees
Posted on: August 8, 2023
Fire crews remain on scene of Kula brush fire; area burned estimated at 675 acres
Posted on: August 8, 2023
Lahaina fire declared 100% contained; water conservation urged due to power outages
Posted on: August 8, 2023
Brush fire in Kula causes evacuation of residents early this morning
Posted on: August 8, 2023
County tennis court vandalized to accommodate pickleball use
Posted on: August 3, 2023
Department of Housing and Human Concerns grant proposals sought by Aug. 31
Posted on: August 2, 2023traskbuilding_01
County purchases David K. Trask Jr. building for $3.8M
Posted on: August 1, 2023
Cooke Memorial Pool on Moloka?i to close Aug. 1-7, 2023, for upgrade
Posted on: July 31, 2023
Registration forms being accepted for County of Maui Parks and Recreation Menehune Basketball League
Posted on: July 28, 2023
Roadway along rural Alelele Point reopened Tuesday
Posted on: July 25, 2023
Philippine Consulate to conduct mobile outreach on Maui in August
Posted on: July 25, 2023
War Memorial, Keopuolani, Halia Nakoa Street closures ahead of concert
Posted on: July 21, 2023
Calvin downgraded; Maui officials continue to monitor for impacts
Posted on: July 19, 2023
County of Maui takes steps to prepare ahead of Calvin
Posted on: July 18, 2023
Maui officials urge public to stay informed as TS Calvin approaches Hawai'i
Posted on: July 16, 2023alelele point
Limited access for residents via rural Alelele Point starting at 5:30 p.m. today
Posted on: July 11, 20231
New County of Maui hotline for missed trash pickups launched
Posted on: July 5, 2023
County offers free, family-friendly events to honor Parks month in July
Posted on: June 30, 2023
County of Maui awarded $25 million federal grant to help fund Kihei North-South Collector Road
Posted on: June 30, 2023
Olowalu brush fire 80 percent contained, fire crews continue work to secure perimeter
Posted on: June 28, 2023
West Maui motorists advised to drive with caution as fire crews work to contain blaze
Posted on: June 27, 2023
Honoapi?ilani Highway in Lahaina reopened; Olowalu brush fire 50% contained
Posted on: June 27, 20230708 Ohiapilo 016
July 6 meeting seeks Moloka?i feedback for creation of wetlands map
Posted on: June 27, 2023keopark_01
Keopuolani Regional Park reopens lower fields and walkways after damaged field lights removed
Posted on: June 26, 2023hawaii on the hill 1
Mayor Richard Bissen meets with Hawai`i congressional delegation, attends Hawai?i on the Hill in Was
Posted on: June 16, 2023
Majority of Keopuolani Regional Park’s 110 acres remains open
Posted on: June 15, 2023
Kaunoa Senior Services announces schedule for virtual classes starting in July
Posted on: June 15, 2023
Emergency slope scaling starts at Alelele Point area; about 150 cubic yards of rock and soil debris
Posted on: June 14, 2023
Mayor Richard Bissen bringing Holomua Kakou to Lana`i from July 11-12
Posted on: June 9, 2023
Lahaina Recreation Center playground closed until further notice due to damaged playground surface
Posted on: June 9, 2023budgetsigning_02
Mayor Richard Bissen signs into law $1.07 billion Fiscal Year 2024 budget
Posted on: June 8, 2023
Maui County waitlist reopening for Section 8 rent subsidy program
Posted on: June 8, 2023Photo 2-Maui Nui Strong website home page screen shot
New Maui Nui Strong program connects residents, businesses, visitors
Posted on: June 7, 2023
More than 100 attend community meetings on Alelele rockfall project; work expected to take 3 weeks
Posted on: June 6, 2023
Hana Metals Recycling Event slated June 16-17 in East Maui
Posted on: June 2, 2023
County of Maui providing free meals at Summer PALS sites
Posted on: June 2, 2023personnel_oath_13
Cynthia Razo-Porter sworn in as County of Maui Director of Personnel Services
Posted on: May 31, 2023
Survey starting June 1 seeks resident feedback on countywide parks and recreation facilities, needs
Posted on: May 30, 2023
County to hold community meetings in Kipahulu, Hana and Kaupo to discuss Alelele Point road closure
Posted on: May 28, 2023
Resident impacts of road closure sought; visitors urged to avoid individual trips to East Maui
Posted on: May 23, 2023
County of Maui Virtual Career Fair on May 25 brings job details to comfort of home
Posted on: May 16, 2023
Maui County wetlands map will help mitigate flooding, protect environment
Posted on: May 12, 2023
County increases salaries for seasonal workers to assist with summer recruitment for PALs program
Posted on: May 12, 2023
Concrete barriers, electronic signs set up after rockfall forces East Maui road closure
Posted on: May 11, 2023
County of Maui closing Hana Highway at Alelele Point near Kipahulu due to safety issues
Posted on: May 10, 2023
Want to help your community in an emergency? Volunteer with CERT
Posted on: May 3, 2023mauliolapharmacy
Mauliola Pharmacy in Wailuku offering free COVID-19 antibody testing
Posted on: April 25, 2023
Volunteers an immediate need for Kaunoa senior wellness program
Posted on: April 21, 2023volunteers_group_01
2023 Maui County Volunteer Heroes recognized for 'giving back’
Posted on: April 19, 2023
Maui Planning Commission votes unanimously to approve new SMA and Shoreline rules
Posted on: April 13, 2023
County of Maui soliciting applications for Economic Diversification grants
Posted on: March 13, 2023
County of Maui’s PARK MAUI to hold Lahaina open house
Posted on: March 13, 2023
Baldwin Beach Park to be closed Thursday, March 16 and Friday, March 17 for removal of crownless pal
Posted on: March 13, 2023
Nominations sought for 2023 Outstanding Older Americans in Maui County Awards
Posted on: March 13, 2023
Kealaloa Avenue to be closed from Hanamu Road to Haleakala Highway for road repairs March 14 to 17
Posted on: March 7, 202320230303-Holomua-Kakou-Molokai-Flyer
Mayor Richard Bissen launches Holomua Kakou; Moloka'i Community Talk Story first scheduled
Posted on: March 3, 2023Vineyard Paving Detour Plan (rev2)
Road closures on Vineyard Street and Church Street in Wailuku to begin Tuesday, March 7 for paving
Posted on: March 3, 2023
County of Maui soliciting grant applications for new Green Grants Program
Posted on: February 28, 2023
Waiehu Municipal Golf Course to begin pilot online reservations program, March 15
Posted on: February 28, 2023
Work on traffic signal to be done Tuesday at intersection of Wakea Avenue and Ho'ohana Street
Posted on: February 27, 2023
Kulanihako'i Street to be closed at Pi'ilani Highway for Construction
Posted on: February 24, 2023
Hana Metals Collection and Recycling Event set for March 17 and 18
Posted on: February 24, 2023
Mayor Bissen Issues Statement on Incident Involving Grounded Private Yacht at Honolua Bay
Posted on: February 21, 2023Kakoo Haleakala Photo-vessel grounded_Honolua Bay 2.20.23
County of Maui issues emergency permit to address vessel grounded on reef at Honolua Bay
Posted on: February 21, 2023
Mayor Richard Bissen, Jr. Honors Engineers With Proclamation
Posted on: February 20, 2023
Public Urged to Prepare for Storm, Department of Water Supply Requests Water Conservation
Posted on: February 16, 2023
Public Advised to Monitor Weather Conditions in Light of Flash Flood Watch
Posted on: February 15, 2023
Water service to be affected overnight Wednesday, Feb.15 for part of Kehalani at Koa subdivision
Posted on: February 14, 2023021023 Mele Fong  Photo
Kaunoa Senior Services Announces Virtual Classes in March
Posted on: February 13, 2023
County of Maui Department of Motor Vehicles and Licensing Kihei Satellite Office To Temporarily Open
Posted on: February 10, 2023
Fire Chief Brad Ventura & Mayor Bissen offer statements on the passing of Tre' Evans-Dumaran
Posted on: February 4, 2023
It is with a heavy heart that we offer news of firefighter Tre’ Evans-Dumaran
Posted on: February 4, 20233
Mayor Richard Bissen, Jr. visits site of diesel fuel spill at Haleakala
Posted on: February 2, 2023FinanceAccounts
County of Maui Awarded Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting
Posted on: February 1, 2023
County of Maui assesses athletic fields, parks after flooding
Posted on: January 30, 2023
County of Maui Provides Update on Status of Firefighter Injured in Storm Drain
Posted on: January 30, 2023
Second Installment of Real Property Tax Bills Due February 21
Posted on: January 30, 2023
Multiple Closures, Public Works Clearing Roadways, Residents & Visitors Advised to Exercise Caution
Posted on: January 29, 2023
Lahaina Bypass is completely open
Posted on: January 28, 2023
Emergency shelter on Molokai scheduled to close
Posted on: January 28, 2023
Emergency shelter opens on Molokai, Maui County under flood watch
Posted on: January 28, 2023
Flash flood warning updates: road closures, park closures and facility closures
Posted on: January 27, 2023
NWS extends flash flood warning for the Island of Maui until 7 p.m.
Posted on: January 27, 2023
NWS issues flash flood warning for the Island of Maui until 4 p.m.
Posted on: January 27, 2023
Fourth Friday in Kihei Canceled Due to Weather
Posted on: January 27, 2023CNY
County of Maui hosts Chinese New Year Lion Dance on Friday at Kalana O Maui County Building
Posted on: January 25, 2023
County of Maui Issues Statement on Incident at Kalana O Maui This Morning
Posted on: January 25, 2023
Kaunoa Senior Services announces February virtual classes for seniors
Posted on: January 23, 2023
Ho'okipa Beach Park and Baldwin Beach Park closed due to high surf
Posted on: January 22, 2023
Kaunoa Senior Services seeking volunteers for Meals on Wheels program
Posted on: January 20, 2023
Work on County of Maui's water system to affect water service for some Pukalani customers
Posted on: January 18, 2023
County of Maui ocean safety officers make two rescues as NWS extends high surf warning
Posted on: January 12, 2023
County of Maui reopens beach parks; Ocean Safety Officers conduct multiple rescues
Posted on: January 11, 2023
Kuau Bay Beach Park closed today, Baldwin Beach Park and Ho`okipa Beach Park remain closed
Posted on: January 11, 2023
Baldwin Beach Park and Ho'okipa Beach Park to close Wednesday
Posted on: January 10, 2023
NWS is forecasting that an extra-large north-northwest swell will impact the state starting Tuesday
Posted on: January 9, 2023
Search

All categories
Search
Tools
RSS
County Alerts & Notifications
Categories
All Categories
Road Notifications
Press Releases
Water Department
Housing and Human Concerns News
MEMA News Flash
MPD Press Releases
Liquor Dept - Latest News
Alelele Point Rock Scaling Project Updates
Alelele Point Incident Reporting
2023 State of the County Address
Transient Accommodations Tax
Emergency Management Agency Notifications
Road Closure Notifications
Subscribe to Road Closure Notifications
Bid Postings
Boards and Commissions
County Directory
COVID-19 Resources
Dept. of Motor Vehicles & Licensing
Document Center
Facilities
FAQs
MAPPS - Maui's Automated Planning and Permitting System
Notify Me
Resource Directory
Quick Links
Social Media Center
COM CONNECT
Report Concerns or Request Information
MAUI RENT HELP
Maui County Emergency Rental Assistance Program
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
Stay Prepared & Connected
HAWAI'I STATE DEPT OF HEALTH
Managing COVID-19 in Hawai‘i
EMAIL NOTIFICATIONS
Sign-up to Receive Updates
SOCIAL MEDIA
CONTACT
BACK TO TOP
Seal
Contact Us
County of Maui
200 S. High St.
Kalana O Maui Bldg,
Wailuku, HI 96793


Skip to Content
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Footer
August 2023 Wildfires: Information and Latest Updates
Governor Josh Green, M.D. logoOffice of the Governor
GOVERNOR JOSH GREEN, M.D.
Ke Keʻena O Ke Kiaʻāina
Home » Latest Department News, Newsroom » REVISED: DLNR News Release-Aerial Photos and Video of all Four Maui Fires, August 11, 2023
REVISED: DLNR NEWS RELEASE-AERIAL PHOTOS AND VIDEO OF ALL FOUR MAUI FIRES, AUGUST 11, 2023
Posted on Aug 11, 2023 in Latest Department News, Newsroom
(KAHULUI, MAUI) – The Hawai‘i Department of Land and Natural Resources is providing aerial video and photos from flyovers today, of all four fires spread this week by winds from a hurricane passing south of the state. All images and video courtesy: Hawai‘i DLNR

 

Olinda fire (Upcountry Maui):

This fire likely started across Olinda Road from the Maui Bird Conservation Center, operated by the San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance on land and facilities under the jurisdiction of the DLNR Division of Forestry and Wildlife (DOFAW). Lance DeSilva, the fire manager for DOFAW’s Maui Branch estimates this fire is 70% contained. On today’s flight he mapped the perimeter of the fire to estimate its size. His report is pending. The video contains an interview with Lance DeSilva.

 

Video – Olinda wildfire (August 11, 2023):

https://vimeo.com/853860983

 

Video – Interview with Lance DeSilva, DLNR Division of Forestry and Wildlife (8-11-23):

https://vimeo.com/853866151

(Transcription attached)

 

Video – Security camera footage at Maui Bird Conservation Center (August 7, 2023):

https://vimeo.com/853861911

 

Photographs – Olinda wildfire (August 11, 2023):

https://www.dropbox.com/sh/ipj2ccg3y53r53c/AACpZn51foEC0cRdU8-xe1pka?dl=0

 

 

Kula fire (Upcountry Maui):

Numerous homes in this area were destroyed and Maui County firefighters were still on the scene this morning.  Please check with the Maui County Fire Dept., for details as it is the lead on this fire.

 

Video – Kula wildfire (August 11, 2023):



Photographs – Kula wildfire (August 11, 2023):
 

Pulehu wildfire (Central Maui):

This fire scorched grasslands above Kihei and burned mostly on Haleakala Ranch lands. A few small “smokers” were visible from the air today. Please check with the Maui County Fire Dept., for details as it is the lead on this fire.

 
3d ago / 6:42 AM BST
Scientists take stock of the plants and animals that lost to the flames
Sakshi Venkatraman

As Hawaii continues its effort to contain wildfires across the Big Island and Maui, and a climbing death toll leaves residents shell-shocked, scientists across the United States have begun to take stock of the plants and animals that have been lost to the flames. 

Though Hawaii makes up less than 1% of U.S. land, it contains 44% of the country’s endangered and threatened plant life. While some native plants can gradually recover from wildfires of this scale, others will likely be scorched beyond regrowth, experts said. No clear data is available yet on exactly what has been lost, but scientists fear the toll is significant. 

Read the full story here.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 6:20 AM BST
Fire prompts evacuations in West Maui community of Kaanapali
Evacuations were ordered in the western Maui community of Kaanapali today after a fire, Maui County Police said.

Kaanapali is north of Lahaina, the town devastated by a wildfire this week, and according to U.S. census data it has a population of around 1,100.

Maui County police said there are no restrictions for people to leave the west side of Maui. Earlier police had restricted traffic after people went around barricades, the department said.

Firefighters on Maui have been fighting three wildfires, in addition to flare up fires, officials said.

"As of this posting, there is a fire in West Maui, residents in the Kaanapali are currently being evacuated," police said.

"At this time, there are no restrictions to exit the west side. Our priority is to ensure the safety of the community and first responders. We will allow entrance once it is safe to do so."

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 6:03 AM BST
NBC News

The devastation seen from the air above the Maui town of Lahaina is striking, with blocks of burned down buildings — a heartbreak even as help arrived in the form of aid arrived.

Even at 400 feet up above the town that once housed more than 12,000 people in West Maui, there was a smell of smoke.

NBC News correspondent Tom Llamas flew over Lahaina on Friday, three days after the fire, which was whipped by winds with gusts of 60 mph or more, swept into the community.


Watch: Aerial footage shows Lahaina destroyed by wildfires
SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 5:14 AM BST
Road to Lahaina closes in both directions

Phil Helsel

The road into Lahaina, the West Maui town devastated by a wildfire, was closed in both directions this afternoon, Maui County police announced.

Some residents into the town with limited access had been allowed back earlier in the day.

Maui County police in a social media post did not say why the road was closed. The County of Maui has said that burning areas are toxic, and barricades remained up around Lahaina.

NBC affiliate KHNL of Honolulu reported, citing county officials, that people being allowed back had not been following rules put in place by authorities, and going into places in Lahaina where they were not allowed.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 4:35 AM BST
A deadly — and costly — disaster
The Associated Press

The deadly Maui wildfire is already projected to be the second-costliest disaster in Hawaii history, behind only Hurricane Iniki in 1992, according to calculations by Karen Clark & Company, a prominent disaster and risk modeling company.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 4:11 AM BST

Hawaii residents turn to radio station for vital updates
SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 3:50 AM BST
Three Maui fires partially contained, but the fight continues

Phil Helsel

The deadly Lahaina fire that swept into the West Maui town of the same name, causing widespread damage, is 85 percent contained, Maui County said today.

There are two other wildfires on the island. The Pulehu/Kihei fire is 80 percent contained, the county said in an update, and the Upcountry Maui fire is 50 percent contained.

“Firefighters continue battling flare-ups in all three fires,” the county said in a 3 p.m. (local time) update.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 3:27 AM BST
Postal carrier's route now filled with ruins — but the mail still gets delievered

Tom Llamas

KULA, Maui — Postal carrier Marra Gomes can point out the wreckage of one large home where multiple members of a family lived, or another house where the family of a relative’s boyfriend once lived.

Those homes, burned along with many others in Maui's wildfires, are ruins.

“The toughest part is seeing all the families not here that I used to wave at. Or the two little kids up the street ... run to me and grab their mail,” she said, wiping her eyes.

Gomes is delivering mail to those who remain. For many, they are holding mail at the post office.

People who remain ask Gomes if she’s OK, she said.

“We just got to keep going. Just trying to make everybody feel like, life can still go on,” Gomes said.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 2:55 AM BST

Lahaina woman says she did not receive alerts the area was on fire
SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 2:40 AM BST
Maui wildfire one of deadliest in modern American history

Phil Helsel

The wildfire that tore through the West Maui town of Lahaina and the surrounding area, killing at least 67 people, is one of the deadliest wildfires in modern American history.

Image: Lahaina's Front Street in the aftermath of the fires on Thursday.
Lahaina's Front Street in the aftermath of the fires on Thursday.Patrick T. Fallon / AFP via Getty Images
Only the Camp Fire, which killed 85 people when it erupted and destroyed the California mountain community of Paradise in 2018, appears to have killed more.

The Camp Fire is considered by state officials to be the deadliest wildfire in California history and has been called in state hazard preparedness materials the deadliest wildfire in the United States in 100 years.

In 1871, the Peshtigo Fire in Wisconsin killed an estimated 1,200 to 2,400 people and is considered the deadliest wildfire in American history, according to a history by a National Weather Service science officer in Wisconsin.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 2:23 AM BST
Red Cross, World Central Kitchen rally their troops to help

Dennis Romero

The American Red Cross said Friday it has been at work 24 hours a day, providing 2,100 overnight shelter stays to those displaced by flames and evacuations in Hawaii.

The relief org said that an army of volunteers, including some of the 1,300 residents who recently began training for Red Cross duty, was expected to supplement its efforts in the coming days.

The nonprofit's main mission in the fire-ravaged areas of Maui and the Big Island has been to provide emergency shelter, but it's also providing food and emotional support, and it plans to help with damage estimates and distribution of relief supplies, according to a Red Cross statement.

The World Central Kitchen, the food-relief nonprofit founded by celebrity chef José Andrés, is feeding first responders and victims. Some of its team members arrived in Maui earlier this week, the organization said on its social media channels.

"WCK’s Relief Team reached Maui with hundreds of sandwiches that were quickly delivered to emergency workers fighting the blaze near Lahaina," it said in a statement. "We are now visiting shelters and rural communities on Maui and the Big Island and will continue to identify and fill meal needs."

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 1:49 AM BST
'Grandma, we're looking for you'

Catastrophic wildfires in Hawaii leave Maui communities devastated
SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 1:14 AM BST
Coast Guard rescued 17 in Lahaina fire chaos, as many as 100 were feared to be in the water

Phil Helsel


Coast Guard rescued 17 after dozens fled from wildfires in Lahaina
The U.S. Coast Guard crews that rescued 17 people fleeing a deadly fire were faced with rough seas, heavy smoke and fears that as many as 100 people needed saving, an official said today.

Smoke prevented a helicopter crew from seeing the victims Tuesday, Coast Guard Capt. Aja L. Kirksey, commander of Coast Guard Sector Honolulu, said today.

Boats faced rough seas from the extreme winds that helped fuel the wildfire in Lahaina, Kirksey said.

“There was smoke and fire near the water, but they were fortunate to have been there during the rescues at a time when the smoke lifted, for them to be able to see the people who needed to be rescued,” she said.

The reports of up to 100 people who had fled into the water was an estimate, she said. She described it as a "really hectic scene."

The Coast Guard rescued 17 from Tuesday evening into early Wednesday, but some people may have been able to get out of the water themselves, she said. Eight good Samaritan vessels also responded to an emergency broadcast for aid, she said.

The Coast Guard has not found anyone else in the water to rescue. One person was spotted by air in the water since then and recovered, and was described as unresponsive.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 12:53 AM BST

Hawaii wildfire survivor: 'There's nothing left of my home'
SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 12:35 AM BST
Confirmed deaths rise to 67

Phil Helsel

The number of confirmed deaths from a wildfire that struck the Lahaina area of Maui is now 67, Maui County said.

The previous confirmed deaths had been 55. Hawaii's governor has said he expected the numbers to rise.

The 12 additional fatalities were discovered as firefighters battled the Lahaina fire, which is still active, the county said.


Hawaii wildfire death toll rises to at least 67
SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 11:58 PM BST
Devastated Lahaina like ‘a war zone’ returning resident says

Miguel Almaguer


Desperate search for the unaccounted for amid Hawaii wildfires
KAHULUI, Maui — Already having lost his home and his father’s ashes, Kimo Kirkman returned to his ruined house in Lahaina for one reason: his dogs and cat.

“We knew nothing was there, but me and my wife, there was no way we were going to leave our animals’ bodies to just be thrown into the rubble,” he said today. “That wasn’t even a thought.”

The devastation in Lahaina was like nothing Kirkman had ever seen.

“It’s a war zone,” he said. “It was just pure — I don’t even have the words for it. I can’t explain it.”

Kirkman knew his animals were likely dead because a tracking collar stopped tracking Tuesday afternoon, when the wind-whipped fire was hitting Lahaina.

When he and his wife, Steffani, got to the home they talked to the dogs, hoping they would present themselves.

“And we went right to the bedroom to where we knew the dogs were, and both dogs were on the bed, and they were cuddling, they were next to each other. And our cat was in the shower about three feet away,” he said.

“And that’s what they did. They were buddies, they were best friends,” he said. “It’s just sad to know that they were alone.” 

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 11:53 PM BST
Top federal officials to meet with state, local leaders in show of unity

Dennis Romero

A trio of top federal officials was traveling to Hawaii to meet with state and local leaders in a show of unity and commitment to aid.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency said its own leader, administrator Deanne Criswell, would headline the federal entourage. On Thursday, FEMA announced it would make money and loans available to qualified victims of wildfires in Maui County.

Limited assistance would also be made available to victims in Hawaii County, FEMA said.

Grants could be used for temporary housing and home repairs; low-interest loans can cover uninsured property losses, and programs targeting business owners are intended to help them rebuild and reopen, the administration said.

On Thursday, President Joe Biden declared a major disaster for the state.

Also on the trip will be the top leaders of the Small Business Administration and U.S. Fire Administration, Isabella Casillas Guzman and Lori Moore-Merrell, respectively, FEMA said.

The administration announced the travel plans Friday but did not say, when, exactly, meetings would take place.


SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 10:54 PM BST
Warning sirens weren't activated, agency says
Andrew Blankstein

Warning sirens were not activated during Maui's deadly wildfires, the Hawaii Emergency Services Administration said today.

“Neither Maui nor HI-EMA activated warning sirens on Maui during the wildfire incident," the agency said, but three other alert systems were implemented.

Alerts were sent by mobile devices, radio and television, and the county's opt-in resident alert system, the agency said.

"The sirens are used to alert the public to seek additional information; they do not necessarily indicate an evacuation," emergency officials said.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 10:00 PM BST
Jeff Bezos, Lauren Sánchez pledge $100 million to recovery 
SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 9:57 PM BST
Curfew in place as residents regain access

Dennis Romero

Residents and tourists are being allowed to return to some areas of West Maui, but a curfew will be enforced and some parts of Lahaina will remain off-limits, Maui County officials said.

Officials have implemented a 10 p.m.-6 a.m. curfew for Lahaina and other hard-hit areas.

West Maui continued to be without water and power Friday. “The curfew is intended to protect residences and property,” Maui County government said.

A restricted zone in historic Lahaina town as well as other parts of West Maui devastated by the blaze will remain closed to the public as crews search for fire victims, the county said.

Residents will need identification with a local address; visitors will need to show hotel reservations, officials said.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 9:48 PM BST
Governor said its too early to determine if siren system failed
Antonio Planas

Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said he couldn't say for certain if Maui’s emergency siren system was activated properly ahead of the deadly wildfires.

“It’s too early for me to tell. Much of the equipment was destroyed with fire and it’s a very remote place," Green told NBC News' Lester Holt on Friday. "This was a western edge of the island of Maui. Of course, we would never diminish any kind of responsibility."

Wildfires, Green said, took residents by surprise because 80 mph-winds, the remnants of Hurricane Dora, knocked out telecommunications and essentially rendered the island dark. Fire personnel were also fighting three other fires, Green said.

“I’m very reluctant to blame anyone,” he said. “We were fighting multiple fires that were being moved. Because of these winds, we’re of course, like everyone else, dealing with the extreme changes, global warming, the drying of our land. And then when this storm passed to the south of Hawaii, that was the hurricane — it sent those winds.”

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 9:25 PM BST

Lahaina tourist describes resort lockdown, wildfire devastation
SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 8:57 PM BST
Pope Francis offers prayers for the people of Maui
Antonio Planas

Pope Francis is praying for those who were killed, injured or displaced by the Hawaii wildfires, as well as first responders and emergency personnel, according to the Vatican.

Francis invoked “God’s blessings of strength and peace” for all the people of Maui.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 8:50 PM BST
Resident says neighbors desperate for information, supplies

David Douglas

“You on the mainland know more about what’s going on than we do,” Kaanapali resident Albena Leon told NBC News about the near-total communication blackout on the west side of Maui.

"It’s all word-of-mouth, we’re in the dark, it’s like the old days."

Leon said people are desperate for basic supplies. “We need diapers, medical supplies, people have not had anything to eat. There have been lots of clothing donations, but we need toiletries — toothpaste, shampoo, Advil, insulin, eye drops.”

She said has a truck loaded full of donated items to distribute to neighbors in need but no gas. She’s looking for someone who can give her just one gallon so she can make some deliveries.

“It’s hard, overwhelming. That’s why each of us are taking one thing we can do, and just doing it," Leon said.

She asked to share a plea she has no way to get to local authorities or departing tourists: “It would be awesome if someone could put a bin at the airport for the tourists to leave their extra sunscreen, hats, clothes — don’t carry it home — we need it.”

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 8:09 PM BST
Cruise ship operations halted at Kahului Harbor in Maui
Antonio Planas

No cruise ships will be docking into the Kahului Harbor in Maui, according to the Hawaii Transportation Department.

The state’s DOT made the announcement Friday and said cruise ship operations are halted because of the governor's executive proclamation signed Thursday that lasts through Aug. 31.

The public will be informed about future changes, according to the DOT.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 8:04 PM BST

'The whole town is gone': Lahaina business owner describes devastation
SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 6:42 PM BST
Hawaii governor: People will be able to return to Lahaina on Friday
Marlene Lenthang

Green said residents will be able to return to the wildfire-decimated Lahaina later Friday. 

“Families will be able to get back into Lahaina today," the governor told NBC affiliate KHNL of Honolulu. "The mayor will be announcing the ability for people to go back in, to go to their homes, to go check on whatever was lost, and people will be able to get out too to get more water and services.”

He warned residents to brace for the worst. 

“This will bring Hawaii together, but prepare yourself for the emotional turmoil because if I feel it — and I have the experience as an emergency guy who saw tragedy in the course of 25 years in the hospital — it will be shocking to a lot of other people,” he said.

He said he expects the death toll to rise “significantly” as search and rescue teams enter burned houses and structures. 

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 6:21 PM BST

Radio hosts in Maui take calls to keep the community informed
SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 6:14 PM BST
Wind gusts over 80 mph clocked in Hawaii this week
Marlene Lenthang

Top wind gust speeds above 80 mph were clocked across Hawaii this week, according to data from the National Weather Service. 

In Hawaii County, a gust of 82 mph was recorded 4 miles north of Kawaihae at 4:35 p.m. local time Tuesday. Another 82 mph wind gust was reported in Oahu Forest in Honolulu County around the same time. 

In Maui County, a 67 mph wind gust was reported in Na Kula at 7:35 a.m. Wednesday. Since Monday, the islands have been battered with wind gusts most frequently in the range of 45-65 mph.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 6:05 PM BST
Oprah Winfrey hands out pillows and supplies at Maui shelter
Marlene Lenthang and Diana Dasrath

Oprah Winfrey, a part-time Maui resident, handed out supplies at a local shelter for wildfire victims Thursday. 

“It’s a little overwhelming, you know. But I’m really so pleased to have so many people you know supporting and people just bringing what they can,” she said to the BBC. 

“I came earlier just to see what people needed, then went shopping because often, you know, you make donations of clothes or whatever it is, it’s not really what people need. I actually went to Walmart and Costco, and got pillows, shampoo, diapers, sheets, pillowcases,” Winfrey added. 

Posts on social media showed the media mogul walking around the shelter and handing out pillows to people sleeping on cots.

A spokesperson for Oprah told NBC News: “She will do more, as it becomes clear which funds can be the most helpful for the short-term and long-term rebuilding.”

Lauren Sánchez, the fiancée of Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos who has property on Maui, shared on Threads on Thursday that the couple will be also donating to help recovery efforts. 

"The tragedy unfolding in Maui is beyond heartbreaking. Jeff and I have been on the phone with local residents and officials, and will be making donations to help,” she wrote. 


SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 5:59 PM BST
Still-standing banyan tree offers hope to locals
Emi Tuyetnhi Tran

A large banyan tree in the heart of Old Lahaina that was badly scorched by the fires that ransacked Maui appears to have emerged from the flames still standing.

In the aftermath of the devastating fires, residents are looking to the tree as a symbol of hope.

The banyan tree was just an 8-foot sapling when it was planted in 1873 as a gift shipped from India, commemorating the 50th anniversary of the first Protestant mission in Lahaina, which at the time was Hawaii’s capital.

Its sprawling branches — some stretching more than 60 feet — provided shade to many generations there.

John-Mario Sevilla, 60, grew up in Maui and would often visit Lahaina with his family. He previously told NBC News he remembers sitting in church as the ocean breeze blew in through the open windows, and watching the traditional dancing under the banyan tree.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 5:24 PM BST
Hawaiian officials walk through razed Lahaina
Marlene Lenthang

New photos show Hawaiian officials walking through the scorched remains of Lahaina on Thursday, where buildings were reduced to piles of rubble and mangled metal. 

Maui County shared the photos showing Bissen and Green walking along the once-bustling Front Street, the historical Sugar Cane Train and Banyan Court, all eerily quiet and covered in soot.

One photo shows the historic Lahaina banyan tree, which was planted in April 1873. The massive exotic Indian banyan stands over 60 feet high and has 46 major trunks according to the Lahaina Restoration Foundation. It appeared to be standing strong, with smoke damage visible by some bases.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 4:50 PM BST
Hawaiian Airlines will continue to have extra flights to evacuate Maui
Marlene Lenthang

Hawaiian Airlines CEO and President Peter Ingram said the airline is taking the evacuation process “day by day” and it’s unclear how many people still need to be evacuated from the tropical tourist hot spot. 

“We’ve really been treating it as how much capacity can we put in the air. We’ve added extra flights yesterday, we’ve got extra flights ready to go today, we’re going to operate that schedule and we’re prepared to have extra flights through the weekend,” he said on MSNBC on Friday. 

Weary travelers arriving at the airport and boarding flights to Honolulu have been “grateful,” he said.

“I think many of the guests who have arrived at the airport, particularly the people who arrived on buses from those affected areas, they’re just so relieved to get somewhere where’s there’s power, there’s running water, where they can get a bite to eat,” Ingram said. 


Hawaiian Airlines adds extra flights to Maui to help wildfire evacuees
Ingram said in a statement Thursday that almost 500 employees call Maui home.

“I know our teammates are very worried about their community. Many of them have family members who have lost properties, close friends that they haven’t been able to get in touch with yet, but they’re really just trying to extend our Hawaiian hospitality to the guests that we know need to get on their way and get off of Maui and people are just really focused on taking care of that mission,” Ingram said. 

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 4:18 PM BST
Vice President Kamala Harris calls Hawaii wildfires 'tragic'
Marlene Lenthang

Vice President Kamala Harris told reporters Friday the White House is monitoring the catastrophe in Hawaii “closely.”

“We are coordinating federal resources to swiftly get there to support the work that has to be done both in terms of recovery, but to just support the folks on the ground,” she said. 

“It is tragic what has happened there. I have full faith and confidence in the leadership in Hawaii to stay on top of this, but they will have our full support,” Harris said. “Our prayers are with the families and with the leaders.”

She said she’d like to go to Hawaii to tour the damage, but doesn't want to distract from the needs of the victims and first responders.

"We want to, obviously, as with most of these situations, do whatever is in the best interest of the folks on the ground," Harris said.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 3:41 PM BST
Lahaina resident says she's 'lucky to be alive'
Marlene Lenthang

Lahaina resident May Wedelin Lee said she’s “lucky to be alive” after she frantically evacuated her historic town, much of it now reduced to smoldering rubble. 

“I’m just lucky to get out of there when I did. It’s just the worst scenario possible times ten,” she said on NBC News Now. “It’s seeing everything you love, seeing your whole life just go up in flames, literally go up in flames, in front of you.”

She said she and her neighbors, who live in the heart of Lahaina, were watching the smoke for a couple of hours. It wasn’t until she saw a palm tree about 50 yards away catch fire that she realized she needed to escape. 

“It was minutes, it happened so fast. The smoke jumped, the fire jumped, explosions were happening,” she recalled. 


Maui resident describes seeing her ‘whole life go up in flames’
Thankfully, she was able to account for most people in her inner circle. Now, the survivors of Lahaina need supplies, food and, most importantly, a roof over their heads, she said.

“Lahaina is a very special community. We’ve been through a lot in these last few years and we’re close and I just pray that we can rebuild and that the focus can be us and not tourism, that it can be us," Lee said.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 3:25 PM BST
Like the 'Titanic': Locals jumped into the ocean to escape
Marlene Lenthang

Dr. Reza Danesh, an emergency room doctor who responded to Lahaina this week, recalled the horrific stories survivors shared with him of swimming out to sea to escape flames engulfing Maui.

The fire spread in a matter of 30 seconds from block to block in the historic seaside town that was once the capital of the Kingdom of Hawaii, he said.

“That whole front street and that whole area just burned down and people ran into the water, they were jumping into the ocean, they were paddling out to sea," Danesh said on NBC's "TODAY" show Friday.

"This one girl said she held on to like some metal rod or something in the middle, like 30 yards out, for like seven hours until she was able to come back in. Her friend was hanging on with her and her friend didn’t survive. Kind of like a 'Titanic' story,” he said.

The Coast Guard said 14 people, including two children, who went into the ocean to escape the blazes and smoke Tuesday evening, were rescued.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 3:16 PM BST
‘It felt like a war zone': ER doctor says on responding to Lahaina
Marlene Lenthang

Dr. Reza Danesh, who runs an urgent care center and mobile clinic, Modo Mobile, described the horror of seeing Lahaina after wildfires raged through, describing it as a “war zone.”

“I started getting text messages from some of the EMS people, paramedics and firefighters, that there’s bodies on the ground, like lots. And that was kind of disturbing. It was just kind of surreal,” he said on NBC’s “TODAY” show Friday. 

He said that when he first arrived with his mobile unit, parts of Lahaina were still on fire. 

“I could see trees burning, I could feel the smoke, I could feel the heat,” he said. “It was basically like another pandemic, to explain it. It was a ghost town, very apocalyptic.”


‘It felt like a war zone’: ER doctor on Hawaii wildfire rescue efforts
He said he found survivors, some in need of medical care, and others needing food and water.

Danesh said he was mentally ready for battle, armed with items for wound and burn care, but found that survivors needed much more.

"It was the people with chronic diseases that were going to become acute medical issues. People with seizure meds, diabetics, hypertension, people just didn’t have their medication,” he said.

Adding to the medical crisis, a pharmacy had burned down, there was no electricity, and no cellphone signal, he said.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 2:57 PM BST
Firefighters continue to battle Maui fires, extra help arrives
Marlene Lenthang

Firefighters continue to work to contain fires in Lahaina, Pulehu/Kihei and Upcountry Maui and extinguish flare-ups, the county said in an update Friday at 2:45 a.m. local time (8:45 a.m. ET). 

The efforts to tame the blazes were bolstered by 21 firefighters from the Honolulu Fire Department, seven supervisory personnel and four vehicles. A Federal Emergency Management Agency search and rescue team with the Nevada Task Force arrived Thursday night with two K-9 cadaver dogs, the update said. 

Power and cellphone service are also slowly coming back. 

Power was stored to Upcountry water pumping stations early Friday, and “water will be restored after lines are flushed,” the county said. Meanwhile, officials said “some cellphone service was available in West Maui today.”

Around 10,900 people remain without power in Maui, according to PowerOutage.us as of 3:30 a.m. local time (9:30 a.m. ET).

Six emergency shelters remain open in Maui.

Food, water, supplies and clothing, as well as a limited supply of baby products, will be distributed to residents from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. local time Friday at the Ritz-Carlton, Kapalua. 

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 2:31 PM BST
Almost 15,000 visitors left Maui on Thursday
Marlene Lenthang

On Thursday, 14,900 visitors left Maui on flights, the county said in an update early Friday. 

American Airlines and United Airlines had flown empty planes to the island Thursday to aid in evacuating travelers whose plans were upended by the wildfires.

Earlier Thursday, tourism officials reported that more than 11,000 people had been evacuated. 

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 2:03 PM BST
Survivors recount unbearable heat, jumping into ocean to escape flames
Marlene Lenthang

Mike Cicchino and his wife, Andreza, dove into the ocean to escape getting burned when flames engulfed their neighborhood this week.

“The current was pulling us out. You can’t see anything. At one point, we have fire on us and we don’t know where land is,” he said in an interview that aired Friday on NBC’s “TODAY” show. 

When they made it back to shore and looked for their dogs, they were met by the desperate cries of their neighbors. 


Hawaii wildfire survivors share harrowing stories
“It was like every 10 feet was ‘Help! Help!’ And I helped as many people as I possibly could but I couldn’t go any further, because there was just too much heat,” Cicchino said. 

Another couple, Sam and Josie Younger, said they escaped their beachfront home with seconds to spare when a blaze broke out.  

“It was unspeakable, unthinkable really, just seeing what was going on, all the destruction, all the people,” Younger told NBC News’ Dana Griffin, who is on the ground in Hawaii.

Despite the devastation on the island, Younger said, he's remains hopeful Maui will bounce back.

“It’s gonna take a lot of work and a lot of years and a lot of manpower but I have no doubt that it will bounce back.”

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 1:06 PM BST
When asked about siren system issues, Maui County mayor says fires posed 'impossible situation'
Marlene Lenthang

Questions have swirled on whether the siren system in Maui failed to properly warn residents to evacuate as wildfires rapidly spread in the island's west side.

Bissen said on NBC's "TODAY" show Friday: “I think this was an impossible situation.”

"The winds that hit us in on that side of the island … in some areas, gusts were up to 80 mph, some sustained between 45 and 60-65 mph. So, everything happened so quickly," he explained. "I can’t comment on whether or not the sirens sounded or not, but I know the fires came up so quickly and they spread so fast. There were some initially, when there was a smaller fire, homes were evacuated."

He noted that "many, many" people evacuated from their homes as 2,100 people were in shelters Tuesday night, not including many visitors in Kaanapali who sheltered in place in their hotels.

"Again, there was no power, there was no water. So that’s what we were dealing with," he added.

Hawaii Emergency Management records showed no indication that warning sirens were triggered before the fires erupted, officials said, and some Lahaina survivors said they didn’t hear any sirens, but fled when they saw flames or heard explosions, The Associated Press reported.  

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 12:53 PM BST
'Our focus is on finding missing persons': Maui County mayor says
Marlene Lenthang

Bissen said the focus in Maui is finding missing people and reuniting families as the death toll mounted to 55. 

“I think that number could go up,” he said on NBC’s “TODAY” show Friday, noting so far the victims found were outside buildings. 

“So we have not yet searched in the interior of the buildings. We’re waiting for FEMA to help with that search as they are equipped to handle the hazmat conditions of the building.”


Maui County mayor on devastating fires: ‘We will rebuild’
“Right now, our focus is on finding any missing persons, we want to reunite families, we want to give people information whether their family members at one of our shelters or whether they are among those who have perished, we need to get that information to our citizens," he said.

The west side of the island in Lahaina is still in crisis: no power, no water, no communication ability, no internet or phone service, the mayor said. Crews have been going to the impacted areas with supplies and water, he added.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 12:13 PM BST
Lahaina man describes seeing bodies in the sea
Caroline Radnofsky and Emma Li

A man who stayed behind in the devastated town of Lahaina has described the horror of seeing bodies in the sea and in the streets.

Commercial fisherman Bryan Sizemore, 48, said by phone early Thursday that he saw “at least a dozen corpses” when he went into the town Wednesday. He flagged police officers to the location of one body and later saw it being recovered from the street.

“The town is completely gone,” he said. “Power lines are down. You’ll see whole neighborhood burned out, but then there’ll be one or two houses still standing, barely dirty,” he said. 

Sizemore has stayed in Lahaina to protect his store from looters, but there’s no running water or electricity and food is scarce, he said. He’s surviving on snack bars and a case of bottled water given by friends.

“I never thought I’d see nothing like this. You know when you watch movies, it’s a possibility, but not in real life," he said.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 11:30 AM BST
Hawaii state health authority to offer mental health services to survivors

Patrick Smith

Survivors of the fires that have devastated Maui will be offered mental health services, including counseling, Green's office said late Thursday.

The Maui Community Mental Health Center will provide "crisis mental health services and expanding hours to those experiencing emotional or psychological distress as a result of the Maui wildfires," the statement said.

The services include mental health counseling, trauma processing, psychiatric services and resource guidance.

Anyone seeking these services should contact Maui CMHC at (808) 984-2150 or via email at mauiwellness@doh.hawaii.gov, or in person at 121 Mahalani Street in Wailuku.

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 11:14 AM BST
Rock legend and Maui resident Mick Fleetwood's Lahaina restaurant destroyed

Patrick Smith

A restaurant on the Lahaina seafront belonging to Fleetwood Mac drummer and founding member Mick Fleetwood was completely destroyed by wildfire, he said Thursday.

"MAUI and The Lahaina community have been my home for several decades. This is a devastating moment for MAUl and many are suffering unimaginable loss," Fleetwood wrote on Instagram.

"On behalf of myself and my family I share my heartfelt thoughts and prayers for the people of MAUI. We are committed to supporting the community and those affected by this disaster in the days month and years to come."

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 10:56 AM BST

'It was like a war zone': Lahaina storekeeper surveys Maui wildfire devastation

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 10:24 AM BST
Green: Maui fires are likely the worst natural disaster ever in Hawaii

Patrick Smith

“What we saw today was likely the largest natural disaster in Hawaii state history,” Green said in a statement late Thursday.

“It’s going to take a great deal of time to recover from this, but we have the support from every level of government all the way up to the federal level, especially given President Biden’s approval of my disaster declaration request today. It will be a tremendous effort, but we will come together as a community and begin working toward rebuilding from this tragedy.”

SHARE THIS -
3d ago / 10:20 AM BST
Almost 11,000 customers without power in West Maui

Yuliya Talmazan

Nearly 11,000 customers in the worst-affected western Maui remain without power, a live map of outages by electricity provider Hawaiian Electric shows.

Earlier Thursday, the company said access continues to be limited to many impacted areas because of safety and emergency response concerns, and power restoration will be prioritized to areas that the crews can safely access.

The company also said that it's asking customers in the area to prepare for extended outages that could last several weeks.


SHARE THIS -
4d ago / 10:01 AM BST
Smoldering ruins of Lahaina as seen from the air
NBC News

Aerial images taken Thursday show destroyed homes and buildings burned to the ground in Lahaina along the Pacific Ocean in the aftermath of wildfires in western Maui.


An aerial image taken on Thursday shows destroyed homes and buildings burned to the ground in Lahaina along the Pacific Ocean in the aftermath of wildfires in western Maui.
Patrick T. Fallon / AFP - Getty Images
An aerial image shows destroyed homes and buildings burned to the ground in Lahaina, Hawaii
Patrick T. Fallon / AFP - Getty Images
An aerial image shows destroyed homes and buildings burned to the ground in Lahaina, Hawaii
Patrick T. Fallon / AFP - Getty Images
An aerial image shows destroyed homes and buildings burned to the ground in Lahaina, Hawaii
Patrick T. Fallon / AFP - Getty Images
An aerial image shows destroyed homes and buildings burned to the ground in Lahaina, Hawaii
Patrick T. Fallon / AFP - Getty Images
SHARE THIS -
4d ago / 9:54 AM BST
Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke calls for donations for survivors

Yuliya Talmazan

The thousands of survivors displaced by the Maui wildfires need support and donations, Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said late Thursday. She posted links to the local branch of the Red Cross, as well as other local charities and a food bank on X, the site formerly known as Twitter.

SHARE THIS -
4d ago / 9:46 AM BST
Emergency loan program announced for Maui, Hawaii Island farmers

Yuliya Talmazan

Maui and Hawaii Island farmers who suffered damage in the wildfires this week will be able to use an emergency agricultural loan program announced by the state Agriculture Department on Thursday.

The farmers and ranchers are encouraged to apply now if they believe they will need financial assistance, the Hawaii Board of Agriculture said, as damage estimates may take some time to fully assess.

SHARE THIS -
4d ago / 9:19 AM BST

Drone video captures devastation in Lahaina after wildfires

SHARE THIS -
4d ago / 9:17 AM BST
Oprah Winfrey visits evacuees in Maui
Yuliya Talmazan and Diana Dasrath

Talk show host and media mogul Oprah Winfrey visited wildfire evacuees in Maui on Thursday. Winfrey is a high-profile part-time resident and landowner on the island.

The celebrity's spokesperson confirmed that she went to a local shelter to ask what was most needed. She then went to Walmart and Costco to shop for the items and brought them back, the spokesperson said.

Winfrey plans to do more for the devastated island, as it becomes clear what funds can be the most helpful for the short-term and long-term rebuilding, the spokesperson added, calling the wildfires "heart-breaking devastation."

SHARE THIS -
4d ago / 8:54 AM BST
Death toll rises to at least 55

Max Burman

The number of people confirmed to have died in the devastating Maui fire is now 55, local officials said early Friday.

“As firefighting efforts continue, 2 additional fatalities have been confirmed today amid the active Lahaina fire,” Maui county said in a news release.

SHARE THIS -

NEW UPDATES

NBC News
Marlene Lenthang, Antonio Planas, Dennis Romero and Phil Helsel contributed.




Skip to content
CONTINUING COVERAGE
Maui Wildfires
NBC Los Angeles
Main Navigation
Sunny
81º
TRENDING
Maui Wildfires Maui Fires: How to Help 🚨Mall Robbery Clear the Shelters 🐾 📺 Watch: The Rundown 🔍 I-Team Tips
Expand

MAUI WILDFIRES
Why the Maui wildfires spread with catastrophic speed
Hurricane Dora, Maui's natural landscape and flash drought are some of the key elements that led to a nightmare wildfire scenario for Hawaii.
By Jonathan Lloyd • Published August 11, 2023 • Updated on August 11, 2023 at 9:53 am
 
Pause
NBC Universal, Inc.
Here are some of the key factors behind the Maui wildfires’ stunning rate of spread. Belen De Leon reports for Today in LA on Friday Aug. 11, 2023.

Firefighters are increasing containment lines Friday around a deadly wildfire that spread with alarming speed and quickly overwhelmed historic Lahaina Town on the west end of Hawaii's Maui island.

The fires flared up Tuesday when weather conditions and other key factors, including the island's natural landscape and weeks of dry conditions, resulted in a nightmare scenario for the island and firefighters trying to protect lives and property. Strong winds influenced by Hurricane Dora to the south, low humidity and vegetation that has dried out over the summer months left Maui and its residents in peril.

At least 55 people have died since the fire began.


Get Southern California news, weather forecasts and entertainment stories to your inbox. Sign up for NBC LA newsletters.
The fire is the deadliest in the United States since the 2018 Camp Fire left at least 85 people dead in the Northern California community of Paradise. The Maui fires are Hawaii's deadliest natural disaster since a tsunami left 61 people dead on the Big Island in 1960.

The death toll will likely increase.

"What we saw is the largest natural disaster in Hawaii's history," said Hawaii Gov. Josh Green.

Details about a cause of the fire are not yet available, but here are some of the key reasons why the Maui wildfires spread with such devastating speed.

Hurricane Dora
Hurricane Dora was passing well to the south of the Hawaiian islands Tuesday when the wildfires started. The hurricane and an area of high pressure to the north played key roles in what happened next.

"These are the ingredients that came together," said NBC4 forecaster Belen De Leon. "You had a major hurricane passing to the south and a large area of low pressure to the north of the Hawaiian islands. The winds around this area of high pressured moved clockwise, and they worked in combination with the counter-clockwise winds from the hurricane. So this accelerated and strengthened the trade winds over Maui."


AUG 10
Map: See where wildfires are burning on Maui

AUG 10
How to help those impacted by Maui wildfires
Trade winds are part of Hawaii's climate. Air moves from the high-pressure system to the north of the islands to the low-pressure area at the equator. Even though it was about 500 miles away, Dora upset the balance, influencing the low-pressure system and increasing the difference in air pressure resulting in unusually strong trade winds.

“Hurricane Dora is very far away from Hawaii, but you still have this fire occurrence here. So this is something we didn’t expect to see,” Hawaii's state climatologist, Pao-Shin Chu, told the Associated Press.

Wind speeds reached 60 to 80 mph Tuesday in the Lahaina area on Maui's west end. Wind-fanned flames quickly overran parts of the town, forcing some residents into the ocean in a desperate race to safety.

"The winds that hit us on that side of the island, some gusts were up to 80 mph, so everything happened so quickly," said Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen. "The fires came up so quickly, and they spread so fast."

Photos: Deadly Wildfires Devastate Maui's West End
1 OF 23
Go Fullscreen
Robert Gauthier/Los Angeles Times via Getty Images
The iconic Banyan tree stands among the rubble of burned buildings on Aug. 11, 2023, days after a catastrophic wildfire swept through the city.

Natural Landscape
Weather conditions on one side of Maui can be dramatically different from those on the other side due to its mountain chain.

On the windward side of Maui, moisture-rich air rises in elevation from the mountain chain and condenses, resulting in precipitation.

"That's the reason the windward side is just so green and lush," said De Leon. "But you have the opposite effect on the leeward side. that is where the winds compress as they drop in elevation and it also dries out the conditions on the leeward side, like Lahaina."

The latest U.S. Drought Monitor report illustrates the difference. The leeward side of the island is facing drier conditions than the windward side, with severe drought in the Kiehei area and moderate drought in and around Lahaina.

Click map below for larger version.


The US Drought Monitor report release Aug. 10, 2023.
Flash Drought
Drought conditions changed dramatically on Maui since May, when no part of the island was considered unusually dry, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor.

But by mid-June, two-thirds of the island were abnormally dry or in moderate drought. By the second week of August, 83 percent of the island was either abnormally dry or in moderate or severe drought, according to the U.S. drought monitor.

An alarming increase in drought severity in a short period of time is considered a flash drought. Rains that usually drench the islands and contribute to their lush vegetation stopped at the same time temperatures increased, becoming so hot that moisture was stripped from plants, making them dry and more likely to ignite.

"The most destructive fires usually occur during drought. If an area falls into drought quickly, that means there is a longer window of time for fires to occur," Jason Otkin, an atmospheric scientist at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, told the Associated Press. "The risk for destructive fires could increase in the future if flash droughts become more common, as some studies have indicated."

What is the weekend forecast for Maui?
Dora and the area of high pressure will continue moving east, causing winds to subside.

Aided by improving weather conditions, fire crews reported 80-percent containment of the fire in the Lahaina area, one of at least three still burning Friday morning on Maui.

"In Lahaina, firefighting crews further secured the perimeter of wildland areas that burned," the county said in a statement. "That effort is continuing today, along with patrolling areas where structures burned. Civil Air Patrol flyovers Wednesday of the Lahaina town area showed that more than 270 structures were impacted by the fire."

In the Kihei area, the Pulehu Fire was 70 percent contained. Crews used heavy equipment to construct fire breaks through the night. No containment figures were available for the Upcountry area fire, where firefighters are focusing efforts in the Olinda and Upper Kula areas.

This article tagged under:
MAUI WILDFIRES
  
 
Search DVIDS...
Defense Visual Information Distribution Service Logo
Coast Guard to conduct Lahaina Fire Response press briefing at Coast Guard Base Honolulu
facebook sharing buttontwitter sharing buttonlinkedin sharing buttonpinterest sharing buttonsharethis sharing button
Play Video
HONOLULU, HI, UNITED STATES
08.11.2023
Story by Petty Officer 3rd Class David Graham 
U.S. Coast Guard District 14 Hawaii Pacific  
 Subscribe24
Editor's Note: Media interested in attending are requested to RSVP at uscgd14mauifires@gmail.com by 10:00 a.m., August 11, 2023. Media should arrive no later than 12:25 p.m.

WHO: Captain Aja L. Kirksey, Commander of Coast Guard Sector Honolulu

WHAT: Coast Guard is conducting a press briefing in regard to the Coast Guard response following the Lahaina fires.

WHEN: Friday, Aug. 11 at 1:00 p.m.

WHERE: Coast Guard Base Honolulu, 400 Sand Island Parkway, Honolulu, HI

HONOLULU — The Coast Guard is scheduled to conduct a press briefing Friday in regard to the Coast Guard response following the Lahaina fires.

Captain Aja L. Kirksey, Sector Commander of Coast Guard Sector Honolulu, will be available to answer questions from the media about Coast Guard response, operations, and future initiatives.


Oregon Public Broadcasting
AUG. 14, 2023
contribute
 now
Menu
In The News
Heat wave
Amazon
Tillamook Burn
Old Town
Pac-12
Illegal cannabis
Providence nurses
Recovery on Maui could take years, officials say, as the death toll rises again
By Ravenna Koenig (NPR)
Aug. 11, 2023 2:40 p.m.
Wildfire wreckage is apparent on Thursday in Lahaina, Hawaii.
Wildfire wreckage is apparent on Thursday in Lahaina, Hawaii.

Rick Bowmer / AP

Updated August 11, 2023 at 9:19 AM ET

THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR:Become a Sponsor
Officials say it could take years — or longer — to repair the damage from this week's wildfires that devastated parts of Maui, claimed dozens of lives and razed a historic town.

That acknowledgement came as the death toll on Maui was raised to at least 55 people. Hawaii Gov. Josh Green warned at a news conference that the death toll will rise, as rescuers reach parts of the island that had been inaccessible due to the three ongoing fires.

"We are seeing loss of life," Green said. "As you know, the number has been rising and we will continue to see loss of life." He said that the fires were the "greatest emergency we've seen in decades."

Green said many hundreds of homes were destroyed and that thousands of people would need to find places to stay, including in hotels and with community members.

He called on people around the state to take in displaced residents from west Maui if they had the room to accommodate them.

When asked for specific numbers on how many structures had been burned, Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen said: "I'm telling you, none of it's there. It's all burned to the ground."

This graphic shows the location of fires on the island of Maui, Hawaii, Thursday, Aug. 10, 2023.
This graphic shows the location of fires on the island of Maui, Hawaii, Thursday, Aug. 10, 2023.

AP

Officials painted a picture of absolute devastation in the historic town of Lahaina, a popular tourist destination and economic hub that is home to some 12,000 people.

Maui Fire Chief Brad Ventura said there were still active fires, and with the current weather pattern, potential for rapid fire behavior. He said people still needed to stay out of the burn areas because it was still very dangerous, with falling telephone poles and other safety hazards.

Earlier on Thursday, Maui County officials provided more details on the three active fires in the area: the Lahaina, Pulehu, and Upcountry fires. In Lahaina, they said, the fire was 80% contained as of this morning. The Pulehu fire was 70% contained this morning after overnight crews used heavy equipment to create firebreaks. And the Upcountry fire, officials said, had an undetermined containment percentage.

Widespread outages hinder search and recovery efforts
Officials don't know how many people may be missing, as search and communication efforts have been hampered by the lack of power, phone and internet service.

More than 10,000 customers are without power in Maui, according to a tracker from PowerOutage.us.

Utility company Hawaiian Electric says crews will begin damage assessment and restoration efforts once areas are safe, and is asking west Maui customers to prepare for extended power outages that could last "several weeks."

Both tourists and residents continue to evacuate the island, with busses bringing people from west Maui to the main central airport, Hawaii Public Radio's Bill Dorman told Morning Edition.

People wait with their luggage at the Maui airport in Kahului, Hawaii, on Thursday as school buses continue shuttling people over from the west side of the island.
People wait with their luggage at the Maui airport in Kahului, Hawaii, on Thursday as school buses continue shuttling people over from the west side of the island.

Claire Rush / AP

THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR:Become a Sponsor
State officials are discouraging non-essential travel to Maui, and major U.S. airlines have been slashing prices and adding flights to help get travelers off the island.

And those who haven't lost their homes are not yet sure when they'll be able to return.

Bissen said that can happen "as soon as we can try to provide the certainty that we have recovered those that have perished," difficult work that continues Friday.

Meanwhile, the state's Office of Consumer Protection has enacted a price freeze for the island of Maui, meaning commodities must be sold at pre-emergency levels until at least the end of this month.

How federal aid can help — now and later
Volunteers with King's Cathedral Maui bring in donations on Aug. 10, 2023 in Kahului, Hawaii.
Volunteers with King's Cathedral Maui bring in donations on Aug. 10, 2023 in Kahului, Hawaii.

Justin Sullivan / Getty Images

President Biden approved a federal major disaster declaration on Thursday, making funding available to people, governments and nonprofits affected by the wildfires.

The White House said he also spoke on the phone with Green and expressed "his deep condolences for the lives lost and vast destruction of land and property."

Hawaii is also receiving assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the National Guard.

FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell says the agency is deploying search and rescue teams and communications equipment, as well as providing food, water and cots for those who have been displaced.

"So the focus today and the next few days is on making sure we have all the right resources to save lives, but also to support those people that are currently being sheltered," she told Morning Edition's A Martínez on her way to Hawaii.

The disaster declaration enables FEMA to support not only the initial response but the island's recovery efforts, Criswell explained. That includes things like providing long-term temporary housing and reimbursing jurisdictions and individuals for repair costs.

"We also understand that people have lost everything. And so this is designed to jumpstart their recovery," she said, adding that FEMA also offers resources like crisis counseling and disaster unemployment assistance.

Wildfire wreckage is seen Thursday, Aug. 10, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaii. The search of the wildfire wreckage on the Hawaiian island of Maui on Thursday revealed a wasteland of burned out homes and obliterated communities.
Wildfire wreckage is seen Thursday, Aug. 10, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaii. The search of the wildfire wreckage on the Hawaiian island of Maui on Thursday revealed a wasteland of burned out homes and obliterated communities.

Rick Bowmer / AP

The state health department says it's also offering crisis mental health services to anyone experiencing emotional or psychological distress as a result of the wildfires.

Criswell says FEMA will be in Maui "as long as the governor needs us there" and "for as long as it takes." It also has an office in Oahu to provide additional support. While Criswell said it never gets easier to see this kind of devastation wrought on a community, she says it's moving to see how they come together in order to rebuild.

"It always gives me hope to see such great human spirit and human collaboration of people, neighbors helping neighbors really, really stepping up to make sure that they're taking care of each other's needs," she said.

But Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke, speaking to Morning Edition on Thursday, cautioned that it will take the island and its people a long time to recover.

"A lot of individuals will have mental health issues that they're suffering. They have never been in a situation where they just overnight lost the businesses that they invested in," she said. "It's going to take years, sometimes maybe decades, for us to replace some of the infrastructure, including schools and roads."

NPR's Kevin Drew contributed reporting.

Copyright 2023 NPR. To see more, visit https://www.npr.org.

THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR:Become a Sponsor
OPB’s First Look newsletter
Sign up to get important news and culture from around the Northwest, delivered to your inbox six days a week.
EMAIL
Sign Up
Tags: Weather, Environment

NNN
NNNNEWSNIGERIAPOLITICSBUSINESSENTERTAINMENTSPORTFOREIGNMOREOTHERSEXTRABETFAQESYOUTUBE VIDEO DOWNLOADERSEODOLLAR TO NAIRABBCHAUSAFOREXFRENCHSPANISHPORTUGUESEFAQEDUCATIONHOSTINGTRAVELFAQESHAPPY NEW MONTH
CONNECT WITH US
Search: 
Search
NNN
NNN
NNN NEWS POLITICS BUSINESS ENTERTAINMENT SPORT FOREIGN MORE
FOREIGNWildfire devastates historic town of Lahaina on MauiPublished 5 mins ago on August 11, 2023By ADEBISI AYODELE
  News A fast moving wildfire has devastated the historic town of Lahaina on Maui Hawaii s second largest island The fire has caused significant damage to structures including the Lahaina harbor area and has led to widespread destruction The fire was observed on August 8 2023 at 10 25 p m local time by the Operational Land Imager OLI on the Landsat 8 satellite as shown in the image above Fire signature visible in satellite image The image captured by the OLI shows the signature of the fire engulfing much of Lahaina The fire appeared to be spreading rapidly at the time of the observation Another large fire was also observed northwest of Kihei The image was created using shortwave infrared light data which helps identify active fire locations The infrared observations are shown in yellow and they were overlaid on a natural color mosaic image to provide additional geographic context Strong winds and dry conditions fuel the fires The fires on Maui occurred during a period of strong winds and dry conditions According to the National Weather Service the island experienced peak gusts between 45 to 67 miles per hour 72 to 107 kilometers per hour from August 7 to 9 2023 A strong high pressure area to the north of the island and the presence of Hurricane Dora to the south may have contributed to the intense winds Additionally an analysis by the U S Drought Monitor revealed that the southwestern part of the island was experiencing moderate to severe drought creating favorable conditions for the spread of fires Damage to structures and ongoing rescue operations Maui County has reported widespread damage to hundreds of structures particularly in the Lahaina harbor area As of August 9 authorities are conducting search and rescue operations to ensure the safety of residents and visitors affected by the fire The full extent of the damage is yet to be determined but it is expected to be significant NASA s Earth Applied Sciences Disasters program activated NASA s Earth Applied Sciences Disasters program area has been activated to provide support for the fires in Hawaii The team will utilize its open access mapping portal to post updated maps and data products as new information becomes available This will aid in monitoring the progression of the fires and assisting local authorities with their response efforts Key Takeaway A fast moving wildfire has devastated the historic town of Lahaina on Maui The fire was observed on August 8 2023 by the Operational Land Imager OLI on the Landsat 8 satellite Strong winds and dry conditions contributed to the rapid spread of the fires Maui County has reported widespread damage to hundreds of structures with ongoing search and rescue operations NASA s Earth Applied Sciences Disasters program has been activated to provide support and share updated information Facts about wildfires Wildfires are burning longer and more frequently in some northern latitudes due to global warming Firefighters face challenges such as strong winds and dry weather when battling wildfires Dozens of intense fires are currently affecting Pacific Coast states ENND 
Wildfire devastates historic town of Lahaina on Maui
News
A fast-moving wildfire has devastated the historic town of Lahaina on Maui, Hawaii’s second-largest island. The fire has caused significant damage to structures, including the Lahaina harbor area, and has led to widespread destruction. The fire was observed on August 8, 2023, at 10:25 p.m. local time by the Operational Land Imager (OLI) on the Landsat 8 satellite, as shown in the image above.


Fire signature visible in satellite image
The image captured by the OLI shows the signature of the fire engulfing much of Lahaina. The fire appeared to be spreading rapidly at the time of the observation. Another large fire was also observed northwest of Kihei. The image was created using shortwave infrared light data, which helps identify active fire locations. The infrared observations are shown in yellow, and they were overlaid on a natural-color mosaic image to provide additional geographic context.


Strong winds and dry conditions fuel the fires
The fires on Maui occurred during a period of strong winds and dry conditions. According to the National Weather Service, the island experienced peak gusts between 45 to 67 miles per hour (72 to 107 kilometers per hour) from August 7 to 9, 2023. A strong high-pressure area to the north of the island and the presence of Hurricane Dora to the south may have contributed to the intense winds. Additionally, an analysis by the U.S. Drought Monitor revealed that the southwestern part of the island was experiencing moderate to severe drought, creating favorable conditions for the spread of fires.


Damage to structures and ongoing rescue operations
Maui County has reported widespread damage to hundreds of structures, particularly in the Lahaina harbor area. As of August 9, authorities are conducting search and rescue operations to ensure the safety of residents and visitors affected by the fire. The full extent of the damage is yet to be determined, but it is expected to be significant.


NASA’s Earth Applied Sciences Disasters program activated
NASA’s Earth Applied Sciences Disasters program area has been activated to provide support for the fires in Hawaii. The team will utilize its open-access mapping portal to post updated maps and data products as new information becomes available. This will aid in monitoring the progression of the fires and assisting local authorities with their response efforts.


Key Takeaway
– A fast-moving wildfire has devastated the historic town of Lahaina on Maui.


– The fire was observed on August 8, 2023, by the Operational Land Imager (OLI) on the Landsat 8 satellite.


– Strong winds and dry conditions contributed to the rapid spread of the fires.


– Maui County has reported widespread damage to hundreds of structures, with ongoing search and rescue operations.


– NASA’s Earth Applied Sciences Disasters program has been activated to provide support and share updated information.


Facts about wildfires
– Wildfires are burning longer and more frequently in some northern latitudes due to global warming.


– Firefighters face challenges such as strong winds and dry weather when battling wildfires.


– Dozens of intense fires are currently affecting Pacific Coast states.



EXPLAINER
News
|
Environment
What is the environmental impact of the fires on Hawaii’s Maui island?
The effects on the landscape and environment in Maui are expected to be significant and to last for years.


An aerial view of a wildfire in Kihei, Maui County, Hawaii, U.S
Video Duration 01 minutes 00 seconds
01:00
Published On 11 Aug 2023
11 Aug 2023
The fast-moving wildfires on Hawaii’s Maui island have killed at least 55 people, a toll expected to rise, and unleashed destruction on the resort town of Lahaina that is expected to last for years and cost billions of dollars.

Some 1,700 buildings are believed to have been affected by the fires, fuelled by high winds caused in part by Hurricane Dora moving hundreds of kilometres to the south of the island state of the United States.

KEEP READING
list of 3 items
list 1 of 3
11 people seriously injured by turbulence on Hawaii flight
list 2 of 3
Hawaii’s Kilauea volcano erupts again
list 3 of 3
Wildfires kill six on Hawaii’s Maui island as strong winds fan flames
end of list
“What we’ve seen today has been catastrophic,” Governor Josh Green told reporters on Thursday. “We’re talking about the largest natural disaster of this generation in Hawaii.”

As officials began to map out a plan to shelter the newly homeless in hotels and tourist rental properties, Green said it is going to take “many years to rebuild Lahaina”, a town that draws two million tourists each year, or about 80 percent of the island’s visitors.

“It will be a new Lahaina that Maui builds in its own image with its own values,” Green added.

But the effects on the environment in Maui are also expected to be significant.

Experts say the fires are likely to transform the landscape in unwanted ways including hastening erosion, sending sediment into waterways and degrading coral that is critically important to the marine life and the humans who live nearby.

Here is what you need to know about the impact of the fires:

Drinking water
Experts say wildfires can contaminate private wells and water systems including municipal ones.

Private wells are usually shallow and therefore easily affected by fire. Municipal systems also can be affected when fire damages distribution systems.

Sign up for Al Jazeera
Americas Coverage Newsletter
US politics, Canada’s multiculturalism, South America’s geopolitical rise—we bring you the stories that matter.
E-mail address
Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy
Play Video
Video Duration 08 minutes 06 seconds
08:06
THE LAST GENERATION
Pressure drops could lead to contaminated water backing up, sucking in smoke, soot, ash and vapours that penetrate plastics, gaskets and other materials.

“They leach out slowly into the clean water you’ve just put in, making that clean water unsafe,” Andrew Whelton, a professor of civil engineering and environmental and ecological engineering at Purdue University, told The Associated Press news agency.

Landscape and soil
Invasive and fire-prone grass species have moved in over time and during a fire, they can burn into native forests, which means the forests are replaced by more grass.

The soil burns and sloughs off, leading to massive post-fire erosion that smothers coral, affects fisheries and reduces the quality of the ocean water.

The dust can blow for years, harming human health.

“When you lose your soil, it’s really hard to restore and replant. And then the only thing that can really handle living there in many cases are more of those invasive species,” Elizabeth Pickett, co-executive director of the Hawaii Wildfire Management Organization, told AP.

Ocean
Land-based contaminants run off into the ocean, affecting coral reefs and the marine ecosystem.

The burning of homes, commercial structures, cars and trucks make any run-off worse by concentrating synthetic materials in the stream.

Jamison Gove, a Honolulu-based oceanographer with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, said the impact was more severe in environments where there is a short distance between the affected area and the sea.

He noted that Lahaina’s coastal location meant “a minimal distance” for the materials to reach the ocean.

This was bound to have repercussions on the coral reef. “Coral reefs provide coastal protection, they provide fisheries, they support cultural practices in Hawaii,” Gove said. “And the loss of reefs just has such detrimental consequences to the ecosystem.”



Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Skip to main Navigation
Skip to Search
site logosite logo
Search
search text ...

USA
Maui Fire Death Toll Hits 67; New Blaze Spurs Evacuations
August 12, 2023 4:40 AM
Associated Press
A man walks through wildfire wreckage Aug. 11, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaii. 
A man walks through wildfire wreckage Aug. 11, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaii.

LAHAINA, HAWAII — 
Blackened hulks of burned-out cars, the pavement streaked with melted and then rehardened chrome. Block after block of flattened homes and businesses. Incinerated telephone poles and elevator shafts rising from ashy lots where apartment buildings once stood. A truck bed full of glass bottles, warped into surreal shapes by the furious heat.

Anthony Garcia assessed the devastation as he stood under Lahaina's iconic banyan tree, now charred, and swept twisted branches into neat piles next to another heap filled with dead animals: cats, roosters and other birds killed by the smoke and flames. Somehow it made sense in a world turned upside-down.

"If I don't do something, I'll go nuts," said Garcia, who lost everything he owned. "I'm losing my faith in God."

Garcia and other residents were faced with widespread destruction as they took stock of their shattered homes and lives Friday, when the toll rose to 67 confirmed dead in the wildfires that tore through parts of Maui this week and were still short of full containment.

A new fire late Friday triggered the evacuation of Kaanapali in West Maui, a community northeast of the area that burned earlier, the Maui Police Department announced on social media. No details of the evacuation were immediately provided.

Attorney General Anne Lopez announced plans to conduct a comprehensive review of decision-making and standing policies impacting the response to the deadly wildfires.

"My department is committed to understanding the decisions that were made before and during the wildfires and to sharing with the public the results of this review," Lopez said in a statement.

The wildfires are the state's deadliest natural disaster in decades.

Summer Gerling picks up her piggy bank, found in the rubble of her home following the wildfire Aug. 10, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaii.
Summer Gerling picks up her piggy bank, found in the rubble of her home following the wildfire Aug. 10, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaii.
Many fire survivors said they didn't hear any sirens or receive a warning giving them enough time to prepare, realizing they were in danger only when they saw flames or heard explosions.

"There was no warning," said Lynn Robinson, who lost her home.

Hawaii emergency management records do not indicate warning sirens sounded before people had to run for their lives. Officials sent alerts to mobile phones, televisions and radio stations, but widespread power and cellular outages may have limited their reach.

Gov. Josh Green warned the death toll would likely rise as search and rescue operations continue. Authorities set a curfew from 10 p.m. until 6 a.m. Saturday.

"The recovery's going to be extraordinarily complicated, but we do want people to get back to their homes and just do what they can to assess safely, because it's pretty dangerous," Green told Hawaii News Now.

Cadaver-sniffing dogs were deployed to search for the dead, Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said.

Fueled by a dry summer and strong winds from a passing hurricane, at least three wildfires erupted on Maui, racing through parched brush covering the island.

The most serious blaze swept into Lahaina on Tuesday and left a grid of gray rubble wedged between the blue ocean and lush green slopes. Associated Press journalists found the devastation included nearly every building on Front Street, the heart of historic Lahaina and the economic hub of Maui.

There was an eerie traffic jam of charred cars that didn't escape the inferno as surviving roosters meandered through the ashes. Skeletal remains of buildings bowed under roofs that pancaked in the blaze. Palm trees were torched, boats in the harbor were scorched and the stench of burning lingered.

"It hit so quick, it was incredible," Kyle Scharnhorst said as he surveyed his damaged apartment complex.

A woman digs through the rubble of a home destroyed by a wildfire on Aug. 11, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaii.
A woman digs through the rubble of a home destroyed by a wildfire on Aug. 11, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaii.
Summer and Gilles Gerling sought to salvage keepsakes from the ashes of their home. All they could find was the piggy bank Summer Gerling's father gave her as a child, their daughter's jade bracelet and watches they gifted each other for their wedding. Their wedding rings were gone.

They described their fear as the strong wind whipped the smoke and flames closer, but said they were happy to have made it out alive with their two children.

"Safety was the main concern. These are all material things," Gilles Gerling said.

The wildfire is already projected to be the second-costliest disaster in Hawaii history, behind only Hurricane Iniki in 1992, according to disaster and risk modeling firm Karen Clark & Company. The fire is the deadliest in the U.S. since the 2018 Camp Fire in California, which killed at least 85 people and destroyed the town of Paradise.

The danger on Maui was well known. Maui County's hazard mitigation plan updated in 2020 identified Lahaina and other West Maui communities as having frequent wildfires and several buildings at risk. The report also noted West Maui had the island's second-highest rate of households without a vehicle and the highest rate of non-English speakers.

"This may limit the population's ability to receive, understand and take expedient action during hazard events," the plan stated.

Maui's firefighting efforts may have been hampered by limited staff and equipment.

Bobby Lee, president of the Hawaii Firefighters Association, said there are a maximum of 65 county firefighters working at any given time with responsibility for three islands: Maui, Molokai and Lanai.

The department has about 13 fire engines and two ladder trucks, but no off-road vehicles to thoroughly attack brush fires before they reach roads or populated areas, he said.

Maui water officials warned Kula and Lahaina residents not to drink running water, which may be contaminated even after boiling, and to only take short, lukewarm showers in well-ventilated rooms to avoid possible chemical vapor exposure.

Andrew Whelton, a Purdue University engineering professor whose team assisted with the Camp Fire and Colorado's 2021 Marshall Fire, said showering in water potentially containing hazardous waste levels of benzene is not advisable and a do-not-use order would be appropriate until analysis is complete.

Women hug after digging through the rubble of a home destroyed by a wildfire on Aug. 11, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaii.
Women hug after digging through the rubble of a home destroyed by a wildfire on Aug. 11, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaii.
Lahaina resident Lana Vierra, who filled out FEMA assistance forms Friday at a relative's house, fled Tuesday and was eager to return, despite knowing the home where she raised five children and treasured items like baby pictures and yearbooks were gone.

"To actually stand there on your burnt grounds and get your wheels turning on how to move forward — I think it will give families that peace," she said.

Riley Curran said he fled his Front Street home after climbing up a neighboring building to get a better look. He doubts county officials could have done more due to the speed of the onrushing flames.

"It's not that people didn't try to do anything," Curran said. "The fire went from zero to 100."

Curran had seen horrendous wildfires growing up in California, but "I've never seen one eat an entire town in four hours."

Related
Death Toll From Maui Wildfires Rises to 67 
Death Toll From Maui Wildfires Rises to 67
Hawaii Freezes Commodity Prices in Maui After Devastating Fires 
Hawaii Freezes Commodity Prices in Maui After Devastating Fires
Maui Fire Death Toll Rises to 53, Likely to go Higher, Governor Says 
Maui Fire Death Toll Rises to 53, Likely to go Higher, Governor Says
Biden Expands Federal Aid for Hawaii as Wildfires Grip Maui
Biden Expands Federal Aid for Hawaii as Wildfires Grip Maui
More US Stories
FILE - The sun sets over Seattle's University District, May 13, 2023, seen from Medina, Wash. A hazardous heat wave is expected to bring scorching temperatures to the Pacific Northwest beginning Aug. 14, according to the National Weather Service.
Heat Wave Forecast to Bake US Pacific Northwest with Scorching Temperatures
FILE - Students gather outside Old Main on the Penn State University main campus in State College, Pa., March 24, 2023.
Biden Administration Urges Colleges to Pursue Racial Diversity Without Affirmative Action
Hunter Biden's Lawyers Say Gun Portion of Plea Deal Remains Valid
Off Alaska, Crew on High-Tech Ship Maps Deep, Remote Ocean
Judge Sides With Young Activists in First-of-Its-Kind Climate Change Trial in Montana
All About America
All About America
The Day in Photos
Geese fly by a wind pump in Kinderdijk, Netherlands, Aug. 14, 2023. 
August 14, 2023
​
Skip to main content
Help
Help
User account menu
Log in
OCHA Services
SEARCH
MENU
Informing humanitarians worldwide 24/7 — a service provided by UN OCHA
USA
Lahaina Fire Situation Report for Aug 10, 2023 at 19:00 EDT
Format Situation Report  SourceCrisisReady  Posted11 Aug 2023  Originally published11 Aug 2023
Attachments
Preview of 20231108_Lahaina_WF_HI_Sit_Rep.pdf
Download Report
(PDF | 2.77 MB)
Report Overview:

Date and Time: Information is as of Thursday, August 10, at 19:00 EDT (7:00 p.m. local time) in Maui, Hawaii. Contents: Information on population density changes, baseline community vulnerabilities, and local healthcare infrastructure.

Key Observations:

55 people have been killed as of August 11, 2023.
Population densities along the western shores of Maui have decreased by 84% to 99%.
The greatest population decreases occurred in Lahaina, Kaanapali, Kapalua, and Mahinahina.
Increasing population densities have been noted in Kahului, where most shelters have been opened, as well as in Wailuku and Waihee-Waiehu to the north of Kahului.
CrisisReady’s Open Data Portal

Report details
Primary country
United States of America
Source
CrisisReady
Format
Situation Report
Disaster type
Wild Fire
Language
English
ShareShare this on FacebookShare this on TwitterPost this on LinkedIn
Related Content
USA Lahaina Fire – Maui County, Hawaii, 11 Aug 2023
Format Map  SourcePDC  Posted12 Aug 2023  Originally published12 Aug 2023
USA Kula Fire – Maui County, Hawaii, 11 Aug 2023
Format Map  SourcePDC  Posted12 Aug 2023  Originally published11 Aug 2023
USA + 1 more Pathway to Potential - Afghans in the U.S. Two Years On
Format News and Press Release  SourceIRC  Posted11 Aug 2023  Originally published11 Aug 2023
USA + 1 more USCRI Statement: USCRI and Fellow Advocates Call for Ukraine TPS Redesignation
Format News and Press Release  SourceUSCRI  Posted11 Aug 2023  Originally published11 Aug 2023

